### July 8

cramped: Restrict or inhibit the development of.
subpar: Below an average level.
    
    These workers often live in cramped quarters, with subpar social services, and many have contracted the virus.

Beirut: Beirut is the capital and largest city of Lebanon.

    They “have found themselves locked down in cramped, unsanitary dorms, deprived of income and unable to return home because of travel restrictions,” The Times’s Beirut bureau chief, Ben Hubbard, has written.

tore through:

    President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil announced that he had tested positive for Covid-19, after repeatedly denying the seriousness of the pandemic as it tore through his country.

unhindered: Not hindered or obstructed.
    
    Sweden — which allowed the virus to spread largely unhindered — has Europe’s worst outbreak, and its economy has not benefited. “They literally gained nothing,” one economist said.

steep: (of a slope, flight of stairs, angle, ascent, etc.) rising or falling sharply; nearly perpendicular.
    
    Many experts agree that the psychological and educational costs of keeping children at home full time would be steep.

break ranks：fail to maintain solidarity.

    The Times has obtained a copy of the forthcoming memoir by Mary Trump, the president’s niece and the first member of the Trump family to break ranks.

mollify: appease the anger or anxiety of (someone).

    Facebook’s top executives, Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, tried and failed to mollify civil rights groups that have criticized the company’s approach to hate speech and spurred a boycott by hundreds of advertisers.

defamation: The action of damaging the good reputation of someone; slander or libel.
placate: Make (someone) less angry or hostile.

    The groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, have asked Facebook to update its community standards, among other steps. “The company’s leaders delivered the same old talking points to try to placate us,” one participant told The Times.

fleet: 

    Part of the problem appears to be the age of the fleet, which has been in continuous use since the early 1990s.

defect: Abandon one's country or cause in favor of an opposing one.

    She will take on Jeff Van Drew, a freshman Republican who won as a Democrat but then defected and pledged loyalty to Trump.

juror: A member of a jury.

    Prosecutors have disqualified jurors for supporting the Black Lives Matter movement.

sorrel: A European plant of the dock family, with arrow-shaped leaves that are used in salads and cooking for their acidic flavor. 酸模

    It has also made me obsessed with sorrel.

citrusy: Characteristic of citrus fruit in taste, scent, or color.

    My father-in-law grows sorrel — a citrusy herb — in his garden and gives us a bunch each week.

cilantro: 香菜

parsely: 香芹

chives: 北葱

    I drop it in a blender, along with lemon juice, olive oil, salt, pepper and sometimes cilantro, parsley or chives. 

hazelnuts: 榛子

    Julia Moskin’s herbed grain salad with mushrooms, hazelnuts, pears and a sorrel dressing.

trio: A set or group of three people or things.

    And it’s been 17 years since “the incident,” as the trio formerly known as the Dixie Chicks calls it: when country-music radio stopped playing them after they criticized then-President George W. Bush.

testament： A person's will, especially the part relating to personal property.

    “In an industry that’s never really loved them or defended them, they became a testament to female self-reliance,” Amanda Hess writes in a profile of the band, whose new album is set for release.


### July 9

mobilization: The action of a country or its government preparing and organizing troops for active service.

    The closure of schools is a “national emergency requiring mobilization at every level,” Michelle Goldberg, a Times Opinion columnist, said on the new episode of “The Argument” podcast.

clerical: (of a job or person) concerned with or relating to work in an office, especially routine documentation and administrative tasks.

    The news media, which the government heavily influences, and a top Islamic clerical body have largely supported the women.

harrowing:

    A transcript of police body camera footage offered a harrowing glimpse into George Floyd’s final moments, as he uttered “I can’t breathe” more than 20 times.

### July 16

pounding: Repeated and heavy striking or hitting of someone or something.

    A heat wave is pounding the South.

blip: An unexpected, minor, and typically temporary deviation from a general trend.

    Some advocates of police reform claim that the recent crime increase is a meaningless blip.

felony: a crime, typically one involving violence, regarded as more serious than a misdemeanor, and usually punishable by imprisonment for more than one year or by death.

    On Tuesday, 87 demonstrators were arrested and charged with a felony after gathering outside the home of Kentucky’s attorney general to demand action in Taylor’s case.

level something at someone or something. to direct something at someone or something; to aim a remark at someone.

    Dr. Anthony Fauci, the most prominent scientist on the White House coronavirus task force, pressed back against criticism that some Trump administration officials have recently leveled at him.

monsoon: A seasonal prevailing wind in the region of South and Southeast Asia, blowing from the southwest between May and September and bringing rain (the wet monsoon ), or from the northeast between October and April (the dry monsoon ).

    Deadly monsoons across southern Asia have displaced millions of people, destroying homes and drowning villages.

parade floats: 

exacerbate: make (a problem, bad situation, or negative feeling) worse.

    The trend is exacerbating the gender gap in work hours, as The Times’s Jessica Grose explains.

gerontocracy: a state, society, or group governed by old people.

Yanking out weeds

compost: Make (vegetable matter or manure) into compost.

solace: Comfort or consolation in a time of distress or sadness.

    Gardening makes Samin Nosrat happier. Yanking out weeds, composting for hours at a time and planting seeds have become a kind of solace, “regenerating both the soil and something deep in myself,” she writes.

coriander: An aromatic Mediterranean plant of the parsley family, the leaves and seeds of which are used as culinary herbs.

    Green coriander seed — the fresh seed of the cilantro plant — is Nosrat’s favorite thing to grow.

marinade: A sauce, typically made of oil, vinegar, spices, and herbs, in which meat, fish, or other food is soaked before cooking in order to flavor or soften it.

helm:

    Netflix has released “The Old Guard,” starring Charlize Theron, which makes Prince-Bythewood the first Black woman to helm a big-budget comic book movie.

recital: The performance of a program of music by a solo instrumentalist or singer or by a small group.
    
    In the world of amateur dance, the annual recital is much more than a performance: It’s a celebration of a year’s work for students.


back·drop
A painted cloth hung at the back of a theater stage as part of the scenery.


### July 17

flip to: to change or move through channels, pages, etc.

    Instead, some working-class voters — worried about higher energy costs or losing fossil-fuel jobs — have flipped to the Republicans.

stake out:  to claim as one's own

    This week, President Trump and Joe Biden have staked out dueling positions on the climate.

cap-and-trade: a system for controlling carbon emissions and other forms of atmospheric pollution by which an upper limit is set on the amount a given business or other organization may produce but which allows further capacity to be bought from other organizations that have not used their full allowance.

shatter: break or cause to break suddenly and violently into pieces.

    The U.S. shattered its single-day record for new cases on Thursday, with more than 75,000.

rekindle: Relight (a fire).

    The protests over George Floyd’s killing have rekindled a national conversation over what America owes its Black citizens.

well: A shaft sunk into the ground to obtain water, oil, or gas.

    In Iraq, flaring — the process of burning away the natural gas that bubbles up from oil wells — bears a devastating cost.

outlandish: Looking or sounding bizarre or unfamiliar.

    I adore the work of Samberg and his creative partners — “S.N.L.” digital shorts, the perfectly titled “Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping” — and while this film is less outlandishly absurd than that work, it’s pleasant and funny in the best ways.

sergeant: A noncommissioned officer in the armed forces, in particular (in the US Army or Marine Corps) an NCO ranking above corporal and below staff sergeant, or (in the US Air Force) an NCO ranking above airman and below staff sergeant. (中士)

chardonnay: A variety of white wine grape used for making champagne and other wines.

delve: Reach inside a receptacle and search for something.

    In this week’s Modern Love, a writer delves into feeling unworthy of love while working for a dating app.

shake-up: a radical reorganization.

    The late-night hosts reacted to this week’s shake-up in Trump’s campaign team.


### July 19

log

cue
A thing said or done that serves as a signal to an actor or other performer to enter or to begin their speech or performance.

dis·mis·sive
Feeling or showing that something is unworthy of consideration.

e·van·ge·list
A person who seeks to convert others to the Christian faith, especially by public preaching.

pancreatic cancer

pa·trol
Keep watch over (an area) by regularly walking or traveling around or through it.

tamp down

billed as

from beloved to the bane

shore up

faltering

wrench
A sudden violent twist or pull.

ramp·ant
(especially of something unwelcome or unpleasant) flourishing or spreading unchecked.

throes
Intense or violent pain and struggle, especially accompanying birth, death, or great change.

bulb
A rounded underground storage organ present in some plants, notably those of the lily family, consisting of a short stem surrounded by fleshy scale leaves or leaf bases, lying dormant over winter.


### July 20
id·i·o·syn·crat·ic
Relating to idiosyncrasy; peculiar or individual.

stal·wart
Loyal, reliable, and hardworking.

camouflage 
The disguising of military personnel, equipment, and installations by painting or covering them to make them blend in with their surroundings.

quash
Reject or void, especially by legal procedure.

hoop dancer

landslide victory
A landslide victory is an electoral victory in a political system, when a change in people's views on political matters results in one candidate or party receiving an overwhelming majority of the votes or seats in the elected body, thus all but utterly eliminating the opponents.

flip states/flip the Senate

Scallion: Spring Onion

phil·har·mon·ic
Devoted to music (chiefly used in the names of orchestras).

im·pede
Delay or prevent (someone or something) by obstructing them; hinder.s

catch you off guard



### August 30
full swing
fallen short
concocted
saliva
nasal swabs
run-in
sporadic
moniker 
colon cancer

### Sep 1
summer deficit
detractors 
post-RNC bounce
salient
caravan: A vehicle equipped for living in, typically a trailer towed by a car and used when traveling for recreation.
insignia 
coup attempt
curtail: Reduce in extent or quantity; impose a restriction on.
botched:
brine: Water strongly impregnated with salt.
philharmonic: Devoted to music (chiefly used in the names of orchestras).
groove off
tribute
montage: The process or technique of selecting, editing, and piecing together separate sections of film to form a continuous whole.
hijacking: An act of unlawfully seizing an aircraft, vehicle, or ship while in transit; a hijack.

### Sep 2

torrent
smear: Coat or mark (something) messily or carelessly with a greasy or sticky substance.
snitch
scapegoat: A person who is blamed for the wrongdoings, mistakes, or faults of others, especially for reasons of expediency.
chime:
visage:

### Sep 3

denigrate: Criticize unfairly; disparage.
peter: Decrease or fade gradually before coming to an end.
hood: A covering for the head and neck with an opening for the face, typically forming part of a coat or sweatshirt.
absentee: A person who is expected or required to be present at a place or event but is not.
sworn off
fallout: Radioactive particles that are carried into the atmosphere after a nuclear explosion or accident and gradually fall back as dust or in precipitation.


### Sep 4

bolted 
routes 
vehemently: in a forceful, passionate, or intense manner; with great feeling.
sensible: (of a statement or course of action) chosen in accordance with wisdom or prudence; likely to be of benefit.
ramping up
anthropology: The study of human societies and cultures and their development.
overrule: Reject or disallow by exercising one's superior authority.
capsized: (of a boat) overturned in the water.
synonymous: (of a word or phrase) having the same or nearly the same meaning as another word or phrase in the same language.
vestibule: An antechamber, hall, or lobby next to the outer door of a building.
savor: Taste (good food or drink) and enjoy it completely.
prep: Prepare (something); make ready.

### Sep 5

unsettling: Causing anxiety or uneasiness; disturbing.
tempestuous: Characterized by strong and turbulent or conflicting emotion.
autopsy: A postmortem examination to discover the cause of death or the extent of disease.
asphyxia: A condition arising when the body is deprived of oxygen, causing unconsciousness or death; suffocation.
