### Sep 24
cast one's ballot
mail-in ballot
grand-jury
indict
repose
venue
will-o'-the-wisp： In folklore, a will-o'-the-wisp, will-o'-wisp or ignis fatuus is an atmospheric ghost light seen by travelers at night, especially over bogs, swamps, or marshes.

clutching at air: Air clutches help transfer torque between the engine and transmission, rather than providing stopping power. They rely on compressed air for engagement and disengagement.

dementia: Dementia is a broad category of brain diseases that cause a long-term and often gradual decrease in the ability to think and remember that is severe enough to affect daily functioning.

Alzheimer's disease: Alzheimer's disease (AD), also referred to simply as Alzheimer's, is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that usually starts slowly and gradually worsens over time. It is the cause of 60–70% of cases of dementia. The most common early symptom is difficulty in remembering recent events.

toss aside: v. To discard or reject someone or something: She opened the letter and tossed the envelope aside. Once she became famous, she tossed aside her old friends.

stymie: prevent or hinder the progress of.

hinge on: or upon. verb. To be determined by or contingent on something unknown, uncertain, or changeable: depend on (or upon), hang on, hang upon, rest on (or upon), turn on, turn upon.

jarring: Incongruous in a striking or shocking way; clashing.
mishmash: A confused mixture.
broth: Soup consisting of meat or vegetable chunks, and often rice, cooked in stock.
be best seat: 
epitome of cool: A person or thing that is a perfect example of a particular quality or type.

### Sep 28

upfront: speaking or behaving in a way that makes intentions and beliefs clear:
rank-and-file
breadwinner
ride-hailing
prickly
bespectacled
bulwark： A defensive wall
en·trench
Establish (an attitude, habit, or belief) so firmly that change is very difficult or unlikely.

re·vamp
Give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to.


### Sep 29

square off

pepper
juror
scallion
A long-necked onion with a small bulb, in particular a green onion.

upended
Set or turned on its end or upside down.

incisive
(of a person or mental process) intelligently analytical and clear-thinking.

disservice
A harmful action.

### Sep 30

procure
Obtain (something), especially with care or effort.

### Oct 1

voracious
Wanting or devouring great quantities of food.

fare
Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.

clinch
Confirm or settle (a contract or bargain).

closet socialist

purportedly
As appears or is stated to be true, though not necessarily so; allegedly.

apex
The top or highest part of something, especially one forming a point.

jumble
An untidy collection or pile of things.

eternity
Infinite or unending time.

protracted
Lasting for a long time or longer than expected or usual.

antithetical
Directly opposed or contrasted; mutually incompatible.

quirky
Characterized by peculiar or unexpected traits.

overrule
Reject or disallow by exercising one's superior authority.

glitch
A sudden, usually temporary malfunction or irregularity of equipment.

superintendent
A person who manages or superintends an organization or activity.

reign
Hold royal office; rule as king or queen.

adorn
Make more beautiful or attractive.

### Oct 2

snark
Make snide and sharply critical comments.

robocall
An automated telephone call which delivers a recorded message, typically on behalf of a political party or telemarketing company.

wreaking havoc

wrench
Pull or twist (someone or something) suddenly and violently.

enthralling
Capturing and holding one's attention; fascinating.

decimated
Kill, destroy, or remove a large percentage or part of.

### Oct 4

rosier: having a colour between pink and red:

overarching: 

rupture
breaking up, break, breaking

The risk of a rupture is as big as it was this time last year, when negotiations on the withdrawal agreement hit a similar moment of truth.

tac·i·turn
(of a person) reserved or uncommunicative in speech; saying little.

### Oct 5

poign·ant
Evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret.

grim reaper

na·tiv·ism
The policy of protecting the interests of native-born or established inhabitants against those of immigrants.

enshrine
Place (a revered or precious object) in an appropriate receptacle.

### Oct 6
take stock of

hammering rural America

large-caliber rockets

ex·u·ber·ant
Filled with or characterized by a lively energy and excitement.

debilitating stroke

ba·zaar
A market in a Middle Eastern country.

### Oct. 7

fare
Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.

ship·wreck
(of a person or ship) suffer a shipwreck.

shoal

riff
A short repeated phrase in popular music and jazz, typically used as an introduction or refrain in a song.

he·don·is·tic
Engaged in the pursuit of pleasure; sensually self-indulgent.

star·dom
The state or status of being a famous or exceptionally talented performer in the world of entertainment or sports.


### Oct. 8

frack·ing
The process of injecting liquid at high pressure into subterranean rocks, boreholes, etc. so as to force open existing fissures and extract oil or gas.

scut·tle
Run hurriedly or furtively with short quick steps.


### Oct. 9

chron·i·cler
A person who writes accounts of important or historical events.

ar·dent
Enthusiastic or passionate.

shelled out.

