### OCT.29

nihilism
The rejection of all religious and moral principles, in the belief that life is meaningless.

deference
Humble submission and respect.

yahoo
A rude, noisy, or violent person.

liberal
A supporter of policies that are socially progressive and promote social welfare.

chastise
Rebuke or reprimand severely.

temperate
Relating to or denoting a region or climate characterized by mild temperatures.

liken
Point out the resemblance of someone or something to.

chemotherapy
The treatment of disease by the use of chemical substances, especially the treatment of cancer by cytotoxic and other drugs.

entice
Attract or tempt by offering pleasure or advantage.

disservice
A harmful action.

braised
(of food) fried lightly and then stewed slowly in a closed container.

specter
A ghost.

### OCT. 30

harassment
Aggressive pressure or intimidation.

paramedic
A person trained to give emergency medical care to people who are injured or ill, typically in a setting outside of a hospital.

sommelier
A wine steward.

hull
The main body of a ship or other vessel, including the bottom, sides, and deck but not the masts, superstructure, rigging, engines, and other fittings.

frivolous
Not having any serious purpose or value.

### NOV. 01

homestretch
The concluding straight part of a racecourse.

ward
Guard; protect.

enlist
Enroll or be enrolled in the armed services.

irascible
Having or showing a tendency to be easily angered.

indelibly
In a way that cannot be removed or forgotten.

ubiquitous
Present, appearing, or found everywhere.

plethora
A large or excessive amount of (something).

### Nov. 02

census
An official count or survey of a population, typically recording various details of individuals.

gerrymander
Manipulate the boundaries of (an electoral constituency) so as to favor one party or class.

guffaw
Laugh in a loud or boisterous way.

perm
A hairstyle produced by setting the hair in waves or curls and then treating it with chemicals so that the style lasts for several months.

easel
A self-supporting wooden frame for holding an artist's work while it is being painted or drawn.

spooky
Sinister or ghostly in a way that causes fear and unease.


### NOV. 03



### NOV. 24

substantive
Having a firm basis in reality and therefore important, meaningful, or considerable.

detractor
A person who disparages someone or something.

credence
Belief in or acceptance of something as true.

strain
Force (a part of one's body or oneself) to make a strenuous or unusually great effort.

wrestle
Take part in a fight, either as sport or in earnest, that involves grappling with one's opponent and trying to throw or force them to the ground.

primatologists
Primatologists are scientists who study primates, such as gorillas, orangutans, chimpanzees, and lemurs.

### NOV. 25

punitive
Inflicting or intended as punishment.

antagonize
cause (someone) to become hostile.

sabotage
Deliberately destroy, damage, or obstruct (something), especially for political or military advantage.

botched
(of a task) carried out badly or carelessly.

monolith
A large single upright block of stone, especially one shaped into or serving as a pillar or monument.

miscarriage
The expulsion of a fetus from the womb before it is able to survive independently, especially spontaneously or as the result of accident.

apartheid
(in South Africa) a policy or system of segregation or discrimination on grounds of race.

otherworldly
Relating to an imaginary or spiritual world.

impoverished
(of a person or area) made poor.

patriarch
The male head of a family or tribe.

contender
A person or group competing with others to achieve something.

snub: 


### NOV. 26

choir
An organized group of singers, typically one that takes part in church services or performs regularly in public.

lipstick
Colored cosmetic applied to the lips from a small solid stick.

ponytail
A hairstyle in which the hair is drawn back and tied at the back of the head, causing it to hang down like a pony's tail.

snuggle
Settle or move into a warm, comfortable position.

solitaire
Any of various card games played by one person, the object of which is to use up all one's cards by forming particular arrangements and sequences.

lime
A white caustic alkaline substance consisting of calcium oxide, which is obtained by heating limestone and which combines with water with the production of much heat; quicklime.

pajamas
A suit of loose pants and jacket or shirt for sleeping in.

tumble
(typically of a person) fall suddenly, clumsily, or headlong.

crest
Reach the top of (something such as a hill or wave).

peruse
Read (something), typically in a thorough or careful way.

### NOV. 27

capsize
(of a boat) overturn in the water.

apron
围裙

pepper mill

spruce up
to make (someone or something) look cleaner, neater, or more attractive

ambience
the character and atmosphere of a place.

savvy
having or showing perception, comprehension, or shrewdness especially in practical matters.

milk frother

hammock

### DEC. 23

usher v.

hindsight
Understanding of a situation or event only after it has happened or developed.

credulously
in a way that shows someone is too willing to believe what they are told and so easily deceived:

opioid
A compound resembling opium in addictive properties or physiological effects.

consent
Permission for something to happen or agreement to do something.

ode


### 2021.01.21 NYT

frenzy
a state or period of uncontrolled excitement or wild behavior.

out of the woods

monoclonal
Forming a clone that is derived asexually from a single individual or cell

botched
(of a task) carried out badly or carelessly.


anarchist
A person who believes in or tries to bring about anarchy.

wrestle
Take part in a fight, either as sport or in earnest, that involves grappling with one's opponent and trying to throw or force them to the ground.

contentious
Causing or likely to cause an argument; controversial.

pitch
Throw (the ball) for the batter to try to hit.

antithesis
A person or thing that is the direct opposite of someone or something else.

armchair investors

in the cross hairs of

vortex
A mass of whirling fluid or air, especially a whirlpool or whirlwind.

grudge
A persistent feeling of ill will or resentment resulting from a past insult or injury.

slander
The action or crime of making a false spoken statement damaging to a person's reputation.

cesspool
An underground container for the temporary storage of liquid waste and sewage.

ransom
A sum of money or other payment demanded or paid for the release of a prisoner.

usher
Show or guide (someone) somewhere.

claustrophobic
(of a person) having an extreme or irrational fear of confined places.

organ recital


lore

a body of traditions and knowledge on a subject or held by a particular group, typically passed from person to person by word of mouth.

somber

dark or dull in color or tone; gloomy.

gratitude

the quality of being thankful; readiness to show appreciation for and to return kindness.

valour

great courage in the face of danger, especially in battle.

poignant

evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret.

contend

struggle to surmount (a difficulty or danger).

accolade

an award or privilege granted as a special honor or as an acknowledgment of merit.
