### Sep 24
cast one's ballot
mail-in ballot
grand-jury
indict
repose
venue
will-o'-the-wisp： In folklore, a will-o'-the-wisp, will-o'-wisp or ignis fatuus is an atmospheric ghost light seen by travelers at night, especially over bogs, swamps, or marshes.

clutching at air: Air clutches help transfer torque between the engine and transmission, rather than providing stopping power. They rely on compressed air for engagement and disengagement.

dementia: Dementia is a broad category of brain diseases that cause a long-term and often gradual decrease in the ability to think and remember that is severe enough to affect daily functioning.

Alzheimer's disease: Alzheimer's disease (AD), also referred to simply as Alzheimer's, is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that usually starts slowly and gradually worsens over time. It is the cause of 60–70% of cases of dementia. The most common early symptom is difficulty in remembering recent events.

toss aside: v. To discard or reject someone or something: She opened the letter and tossed the envelope aside. Once she became famous, she tossed aside her old friends.

stymie: prevent or hinder the progress of.

hinge on: or upon. verb. To be determined by or contingent on something unknown, uncertain, or changeable: depend on (or upon), hang on, hang upon, rest on (or upon), turn on, turn upon.

jarring: Incongruous in a striking or shocking way; clashing.
mishmash: A confused mixture.
broth: Soup consisting of meat or vegetable chunks, and often rice, cooked in stock.
be best seat: 
epitome of cool: A person or thing that is a perfect example of a particular quality or type.

### Sep 28

upfront: speaking or behaving in a way that makes intentions and beliefs clear:

rank-and-file: the ordinary members of an organization as opposed to its leaders.



breadwinner
ride-hailing
prickly
bespectacled
bulwark： A defensive wall
en·trench
Establish (an attitude, habit, or belief) so firmly that change is very difficult or unlikely.

re·vamp
Give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to.


### Sep 29

square off

pepper
juror
scallion
A long-necked onion with a small bulb, in particular a green onion.

upended
Set or turned on its end or upside down.

incisive
(of a person or mental process) intelligently analytical and clear-thinking.

disservice
A harmful action.

### Sep 30

procure
Obtain (something), especially with care or effort.

### Oct 1

voracious
Wanting or devouring great quantities of food.

fare
Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.

clinch
Confirm or settle (a contract or bargain).

closet socialist

purportedly
As appears or is stated to be true, though not necessarily so; allegedly.

apex
The top or highest part of something, especially one forming a point.

jumble
An untidy collection or pile of things.

eternity
Infinite or unending time.

protracted
Lasting for a long time or longer than expected or usual.

antithetical
Directly opposed or contrasted; mutually incompatible.

quirky
Characterized by peculiar or unexpected traits.

overrule
Reject or disallow by exercising one's superior authority.

glitch
A sudden, usually temporary malfunction or irregularity of equipment.

superintendent
A person who manages or superintends an organization or activity.

reign
Hold royal office; rule as king or queen.

adorn
Make more beautiful or attractive.

### Oct 2

snark
Make snide and sharply critical comments.

robocall
An automated telephone call which delivers a recorded message, typically on behalf of a political party or telemarketing company.

wreaking havoc

wrench
Pull or twist (someone or something) suddenly and violently.

enthralling
Capturing and holding one's attention; fascinating.

decimated
Kill, destroy, or remove a large percentage or part of.

### Oct 4

rosier: having a colour between pink and red:

overarching: 

rupture
breaking up, break, breaking

The risk of a rupture is as big as it was this time last year, when negotiations on the withdrawal agreement hit a similar moment of truth.

tac·i·turn
(of a person) reserved or uncommunicative in speech; saying little.

### Oct 5

poign·ant
Evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret.

grim reaper

na·tiv·ism
The policy of protecting the interests of native-born or established inhabitants against those of immigrants.

enshrine
Place (a revered or precious object) in an appropriate receptacle.

### Oct 6
take stock of

hammering rural America

large-caliber rockets

ex·u·ber·ant
Filled with or characterized by a lively energy and excitement.

debilitating stroke

ba·zaar
A market in a Middle Eastern country.

### Oct. 7

fare
Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.

ship·wreck
(of a person or ship) suffer a shipwreck.

shoal

riff
A short repeated phrase in popular music and jazz, typically used as an introduction or refrain in a song.

he·don·is·tic
Engaged in the pursuit of pleasure; sensually self-indulgent.

star·dom
The state or status of being a famous or exceptionally talented performer in the world of entertainment or sports.


### Oct. 8

frack·ing
The process of injecting liquid at high pressure into subterranean rocks, boreholes, etc. so as to force open existing fissures and extract oil or gas.

scut·tle
Run hurriedly or furtively with short quick steps.


### Oct. 9

chron·i·cler
A person who writes accounts of important or historical events.

ar·dent
Enthusiastic or passionate.

shelled out.

### Oct. 11

peeled off

fun·nel
Guide or channel (something) through or as if through a funnel.

peddling
The activity of selling an illegal drug or stolen item.

im·per·il
Put at risk of being harmed, injured, or destroyed.

in·un·date
Overwhelm (someone) with things or people to be dealt with.

de·bris
Scattered pieces of waste or remains.

shake off

bout
A short period of intense activity of a specified kind.

lu·cra·tive
Producing a great deal of profit.

re·splend·ent
Attractive and impressive through being richly colorful or sumptuous.

cre·scen·do
The loudest point reached in a gradually increasing sound.

galette

riveting: completely engrossing; compelling.

### Oct. 12

a·kin
Of similar character.

an·es·the·sia
Insensitivity to pain, especially as artificially induced by the administration of gases or the injection of drugs before surgical operations.

cap off

rid·er·ship
The number of passengers using a particular form of public transportation.


### Oct. 13
de·mise
A person's death.

tantalizingly 

on verge of

ob·so·les·cence
The process of becoming obsolete or outdated and no longer used.

ar·o·mat·ic
A substance or plant emitting a pleasant and distinctive smell.

re·per·cus·sion
An unintended consequence occurring some time after an event or action, especially an unwelcome one.

speck·le
Mark with a large number of small spots or patches of color.

dis·place
Take over the place, position, or role of (someone or something).

### Oct.14
pre-K

Given the stakes

hold off

hold off

a·dul·ter·y
Voluntary sexual intercourse between a married person and a person who is not his or her spouse.

subpoena: a writ ordering a person to attend a court.

evade: escape or avoid, especially by cleverness or trickery.

stoked fears




out of the running

er·rand
A short journey undertaken in order to deliver or collect something, especially on someone else's behalf.

nex·us
A connection or series of connections linking two or more things.


### Oct.15


lark
Something done for fun, especially something mischievous or daring; an amusing adventure or escapade.

in·trep·id
Fearless; adventurous (often used for rhetorical or humorous effect).

in·so·lent
Showing a rude and arrogant lack of respect.

### Oct.16

au·to·crat
A ruler who has absolute power.

lous·y
Very poor or bad; disgusting.

at odds
If someone is at odds with someone else, or if two people are at odds, they are disagreeing or quarrelling with each other. He was at odds with his Prime Minister. [ + with]

hu·mil·i·ty
A modest or low view of one's own importance; humbleness.

ag·grieved
Feeling resentment at having been unfairly treated.

un·mit·i·gat·ed
Absolute; unqualified.

ex·co·ri·ate
censure or criticize severely.

con·stit·u·ent
a member of a constituency.

gush
(of a liquid) flow out in a rapid and plentiful stream, often suddenly.


### Oct.17

scram·ble
Make one's way quickly or awkwardly up a steep slope or over rough ground by using one's hands as well as one's feet.

gal·va·nize
Shock or excite (someone) into taking action

scribbled
Written or drawn carelessly or hurriedly.


### Oct.19

duck
Lower the head or the body quickly to avoid a blow or so as not to be seen.

Brown v. Board of Education

an·i·mate
Bring to life.

overhaul
a thorough examination of machinery or a system, with repairs or changes made if necessary.

de·fect
A shortcoming, imperfection, or lack.

or·phan·age
A residential institution for the care and education of orphans.

airbrushing out cleavage

### Oct.20
etch
Engrave (metal, glass, or stone) by coating it with a protective layer, drawing on it with a needle, and then covering it with acid to attack the parts the needle has exposed, especially in order to produce prints from it.

fraternity
A group of people sharing a common profession or interests.

avert
Turn away (one's eyes or thoughts).

### Oct.21

cusp
A point of transition between two different states

behemoth
A huge or monstrous creature.

clutter
Crowd (something) untidily; fill with clutter.

antitrust
Relating to legislation preventing or controlling trusts or other monopolies, with the intention of promoting competition in business.

Attorney General
司法部长

salvo
A simultaneous discharge of artillery or other guns in a battle.

concession
A thing that is granted, especially in response to demands; a thing conceded.

tally
A current score or amount.

landslide
The sliding down of a mass of earth or rock from a mountain or cliff.

hang in
to refuse to be discouraged or intimidated : to keep going, trying, or working in a difficult situation

fugitive
A person who has escaped from a place or is in hiding, especially to avoid arrest or persecution.

slay
Kill (a person or animal) in a violent way.

belch
Emit gas noisily from the stomach through the mouth.

methane
A colorless, odorless flammable gas which is the main constituent of natural gas. It is the simplest member of the alkane series of hydrocarbons

cliché
A phrase or opinion that is overused and betrays a lack of original thought.

grim
Forbidding or uninviting.

bailout
An act of giving financial assistance to a failing business or economy to save it from collapse.

endowment
The action of endowing something or someone.

philanthropy
The desire to promote the welfare of others, expressed especially by the generous donation of money to good causes.

antelope
羚羊

### OCT. 22

flagellation
Flogging or beating, either as a religious discipline or for sexual gratification.

inmate
(plural inmates) A person confined to an institution such as a prison (as a convict) or hospital (as a patient).

dissent
Hold or express opinions that are at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially expressed.

vanquish
Defeat thoroughly

scourge
great suffering

smallpox
天花

stunt
An action displaying spectacular skill and daring.

cornichons
pickles

skewer somebody/something 
(informal) to criticize someone or something severely The movie was skewered for its bad acting.

United States Electoral College
选举人团

### OCT. 23

avalanche
A mass of snow, ice, and rocks falling rapidly down a mountainside

fodder
Food, especially dried hay or feed, for cattle and other livestock.

overhaul
repaire

emblematic
Serving as a symbol of a particular quality or concept; symbolic.

re·vive
Restore to life or consciousness.

### OCT. 25

homestretch
The concluding straight part of a racecourse.

harrowing
acutely distressing.

shatter
Break or cause to break suddenly and violently into pieces.

savvy
Shrewdness and practical knowledge; the ability to make good judgments.

coveted
Greatly desired or envied.

turnabout
A sudden and complete change or reversal of policy, opinion, or of a situation.

squalid
(of a place) extremely dirty and unpleasant, especially as a result of poverty or neglect.

revamp
Give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to.

weigh in
to bring one's weight or influence to bear especially as a participant, contributor, or mediator

### OCT. 26

gear
Prepare, adjust, or equip for a particular purpose or need.

hollow out
to remove the inside of (something) : to make an empty space in (something)

archbishop
The chief bishop responsible for an archdiocese.

cardinal
A leading dignitary of the Roman Catholic Church. Cardinals are nominated by the Pope, and form the Sacred College which elects succeeding popes (now invariably from among their own number).

mainstay
A person or thing on which something else is based or depends.

### Oct. 27

swearing-in: to induct into office by administration of an oath.

neck-and-neck: 

furlough
Grant leave of absence to.

debunk
Expose the falseness or hollowness of (a myth, idea, or belief).

decadent
Characterized by or reflecting a state of moral or cultural decline.

dramedy
A movie, play, or broadcast program that combines elements of drama and comedy.

prose
Written or spoken language in its ordinary form, without metrical structure.

deftly
In a way that is neatly skillful and quick in movement.

### OCT. 28

hinge
A movable joint or mechanism on which a door, gate, or lid swings as it opens and closes or which connects linked objects.

flurry
A small swirling mass of something, especially snow or leaves, moved by sudden gusts of wind.

churn
Agitate or turn (milk or cream) in a machine in order to produce butter.

racketeering
Dishonest and fraudulent business dealings.

