# Economist

## [Did cooking in hot springs make humans brainy?](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2019/05/25/did-cooking-in-hot-springs-make-humans-brainy)

### fashion

* *verb*, make into a particular or the required form.
* *[example]: How and why, roughly 2m years ago, early human ancestors evolved large brains and began fashioning relatively advanced stone tools, is one of the great mysteries of evolution.*

### pare

* *verb*, trim (something) by cutting away its outer edges.
* *[example]: As a result, once they had mastered the art, early chefs could pare back their digestive systems and invest the resulting energy savings in building larger brains capable of complex thought.*

### Homo erectus

* Homo erectus (meaning 'upright man') is a species of archaic humans that lived throughout most of the Pleistocene geological epoch.
* *[example]: The sandstones themselves have previously yielded some of the world’s earliest sophisticated Acheulean hand axes: large tear-drop-shaped stone tools that are associated with Homo erectus.*

### flake

* *noun*, a small, flat, thin piece of something, typically one that has broken away or been peeled off from a larger piece.
* *[example]: Creating an Acheulean axe by repeatedly knocking flakes off of a raw stone in order to create two sharp cutting edges requires a significant amount of planning.*

### gorge

* *noun*, a narrow valley between hills or mountains, typically with steep rocky walls and a stream running through it.

### rift

* *noun*, a crack, split, or break in something.
* *[example]: The molecules’ presence suggests that an ancient river within the gorge was once fed by one or more hot springs, fitting nicely with its location within the geologically active East African Rift.*

## [Many Chinese know little about the bloodshed in Beijing 30 years ago](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/many-chinese-know-little-about-the-bloodshed-in-beijing-30-years-ago)

### chore

* *noun*, a routine task, especially a household one.
* *[example]: Three decades after troops used murderous force to clear protesters from Tiananmen Square and central Beijing, covering up that crime has become a bit of a chore.*

### far cry

* The expression far cry means "very different from." The phrase within cry of has been used since the 1600's to mean "close enough to be heard," and far cry came along in the mid-1800's, meaning "too far away to be heard," or a figuratively long distance.

### intone

* *verb*, say or recite with little rise and fall of the pitch of the voice.
* *[example]: But 30 years on this work of repression is carried out with cold, bureaucratic efficiency—a far cry from the terrors of June 3rd and 4th when soldiers and tanks shot and smashed their way into the ceremonial heart of Beijing, as loudspeakers metallically intoned that the army “loves the people”.*

### lone

* *adjective*, having no companions; solitary or single.

### star down

* a situation in which two individuals stare at each other, typically in a hostile or intimidating way, until one is no longer able to maintain eye contact and feels forced to look away.
* *[example]: His offence: labelling bottles of baijiu alcohol with the iconic image of the lone protester who stared down tanks near the square.*

### snatch

* *verb*, quickly seize (something) in a rude or eager way.
* *[example]: Suspects were snatched from homes and workplaces, or off the streets.*

### magistrate

* *noun*, a civil officer or lay judge who administers the law, especially one who conducts a court that deals with minor offenses and holds preliminary hearings for more serious ones.

### cadet

* *noun*, a young trainee in the armed services or police force.

### draw

* *verb*, pull or drag (something such as a vehicle) so as to make it follow behind.
* *[example]: The protests had drawn students and workers, magistrates in court uniforms and police cadets, and journalists from state media who marched beneath banners reading “We want to print the truth”.*

### oust

* *verb*, drive out or expel (someone) from a position or place.
* *[example]: Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party’s leader in 1989, was ousted during the unrest for opposing military action.*

### demonisation

* *noun*, the portrayal of something as wicked and threatening.
* *[example]: In a letter written from house arrest in 1997, he warned that the people would not forget the protests or the party’s demonisation of them.*

### dash

* *verb*, to strike or smash violently, especially so as to break to pieces.

### flicker

* *noun*, a brief occurrence or appearance.
* *[example]: Yet there has been much forgetting, some of it the work of parents who see no good in filling children’s heads with politics. It is not hard to imagine the dream of modern party leaders: that all China should forget the passions, fears and dashed hopes of 1989, so that future anniversaries pass without a flicker of dissent.*

### despite

* *preposition*, without taking any notice of or being influenced by; not prevented by.
* *[example]: Their argument today, in essence, is that China has succeeded because of that use of force, not despite it.*

### heed

* *noun*, attention.
* *[example]: It angers them that foreigners pay such heed to independent-minded people, whether religious believers, feminist campaigners, environmentalists or left-wing students working with unofficial trade unions.*

### majoritarian

* *adjective*, governed by or believing in decision by a majority.
* [example]: China’s leaders want the outside world to believe that they rule in a majoritarian compact accepted by almost all their citizens.*

### social contract

In moral and political philosophy, the social contract is a theory or model that originated during the Age of Enlightenment and usually concerns the legitimacy of the authority of the state over the individual. Social contract arguments typically posit that individuals have consented, either explicitly or tacitly, to surrender some of their freedoms and submit to the authority (of the ruler, or to the decision of a majority) in exchange for protection of their remaining rights or maintenance of the social order.

### grim

* *adjective*, worrying, without hope.

### dystopia

* *noun*, (the idea of) a society in which people do not work well with each other and are not happy.

They would include in that social contract the grim dystopia that they have built in the far-western region of Xinjiang, where perhaps a million members of the Muslim Uighur minority have been sent to re-education camps and millions more endure unsleeping high-tech surveillance.

### informed consent

* permission granted in the knowledge of the possible consequences, typically that which is given by a patient to a doctor for treatment with full knowledge of the possible risks and benefits.
* *[example]: Nobody knows how stable their support is because China is so secretive, and because the broad contentment of a country enjoying economic growth is easy to mistake for informed consent.*

### swagger

* *verb*, walk or behave in a very confident and typically arrogant or aggressive way.
* *[example]: For the party’s swaggering, authoritarian ways are a challenge to the universal values which help to define the West.*

### quell

* *verb*, put an end to (a rebellion or other disorder), typically by the use of force.

### albeit

* *conjunction*, although.
* *[example]: He has described the violence in Beijing 30 years ago as a “strong, powerful government” quelling a “riot”, albeit with horrible force.*

### narcissism

* *noun*, excessive interest in or admiration of oneself and one's physical appearance.
* *[example]: For sure, foreigners have been guilty of a certain narcissism in imagining that ordinary Chinese, as they grow richer, will aspire to Western freedoms.*

### intra-

* *prefix*, on the inside; within.

### pit against

* *verb*, set someone or something in conflict or competition with.

### hardliner

* *noun*, a member of a group, typically a political group, who adheres uncompromisingly to a set of ideas or policies.
* *[example]: They should welcome intra-party disagreements that pit reformers against hardliners.*

### serenely

* *adverb*, in a calm, peaceful, and untroubled manner.

### unequivocally

* *adverb*, in a way that leaves no doubt.
* *[example]: For a serenely unified, nationalist Chinese autocracy, unequivocally backed by its people, would be a terror to the world.*

## [Hong Kong wants to build massive artificial islands](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/hong-kong-wants-to-build-massive-artificial-islands)

### colossal

* *adjective*, extremely large.
* *[example]: Last year she unveiled a colossal project, called Lantau Tomorrow Vision.*

### quasi

* *combining form*, seemingly; apparently but not really.
* *[example]: On May 25th Hong Kong’s quasi-parliament, the Legislative Council, approved the launch of a feasibility study. Reclamation work is unlikely to start before 2025.*

### fiscal

* *adjective*, relating to government revenue, especially taxes.
* *[example]: That is equivalent to more than half of Hong Kong’s fiscal reserves.*

### recoup

* *verb*, regain (something lost or expended).

### outlay

* *noun*, an amount of money spent on something.
* *[example]: The government, citing a report by a professional body of surveyors, says land sales will recoup the full cost of initial outlays on reclamation and infrastructure-building.*

### come across

* meet or find by chance.
* *[example]: But these worries are unlikely to stop Mrs Lam. Wu Chi-wai, another legislator who voted against the feasibility study, says he has never come across one commissioned by the government that concluded a project would not work.*

## [President Donald Trump is trashing deals in favour of tariffs](https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2019/06/08/president-donald-trump-is-trashing-deals-in-favour-of-tariffs)

### trash

* *verb*, damage or wreck.
* *[example]: President Donald Trump is trashing deals in favour of tariffs*

### stiff

* *adjective*, severe or strong.
* *[example]: The trade element of Trumponomics is a striking departure from previous administrations’ policies, and a stiff challenge to the multilateral trading system.*

### spook

* *verb*, frighten; unnerve.
* *[example]: Tariffs certainly seem to be spooking some into avoiding China.*

### derail

* *verb*, cause (a train or trolley car) to leave its tracks accidentally.
* *[example]: Finally, low tariffs are unlikely on their own to derail the affected economies.*

### crimp

* *verb*, have a limiting or adverse effect on (something).

### margin compresion

* Put simply, margin compression occurs when the costs to make a product or deliver a service rise faster than the sales price of the product or service. Hence, putting pressure on profit margins.
* *[example] Currencies and commodity prices fluctuate all the time, says Paul Bracher of Frost Bankers, a Texas-based supplier of trade finance, and though a 5% tariff would crimp his customers’ profits, as margin compressions go it would be “not that big”.*

### retaliate

* *verb*, make an attack or assault in return for a similar attack.
* *[example]: The Mexican government would retaliate, and business confidence in America would suffer.*

### contract

* *verb*,  to make or become shorter or narrower or generally smaller in size.

### peso

* *noun*, the basic monetary unit of Mexico, several other Latin American countries, and the Philippines, 
* *[example]: Economists at Citibank calculate that 25% tariffs could cause Mexico’s gdp to contract by 4.6% if prices and exchange rates do not adjust, or crush the value of the peso by 59% if they do.*

### timid

* *adjective*, showing a lack of courage or confidence; easily frightened.
* *[example]: Regarding China, they say that earlier efforts failed and multilateral approaches are timid or naive.*

### sit ill with

* uncomfortable about it, not in favor of it.

### glee

* *noun*, great delight.
* *[example]: But it also sits ill with Mr Trump’s glee when he actually agrees to a trade deal.*

## [China is getting tough on those who fail to pay their debts](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/china-is-getting-tough-on-those-who-fail-to-pay-their-debts)

### write-off

* *noun*, a cancellation from an account of a bad debt or worthless asset.
* *[example]: On May 9th a local court announced that it had arranged for Mr Ke’s liabilities to be written off.*

### predicament

* *noun*, a difficult, unpleasant, or embarrassing situation.
* *[example]: Mr Ke—the court did not reveal his full name—had fallen victim to fraud eight years ago. By last year the 54-year-old’s debts totalled 480,000 yuan ($70,000), owed to three banks. But the court took account of Mr Ke’s predicament.*

### discharge

* *verb*, (of a judge or court) cancel (an order of a court).
* *[example]: China, however, still has no such rules for discharging penniless people’s debts.*

### beneficiary

* *noun*, a person who derives advantage from something, especially a trust, will, or life insurance policy.
* *[example]: Officials in Taizhou say Mr Ke is the first beneficiary of a procedure the city’s own judiciary devised for dealing with such cases.*

### winding-up

* *noun*, Winding-up is the process of dissolving a company. While winding up, a company ceases to do business as usual. Its sole purpose is to sell off stock, pay off creditors, and distribute any remaining assets to partners or shareholders.

### insolvent

* *adjective*, unable to pay debts owed.
* *[example]: It is modelled on China’s law relating to the winding-up of insolvent firms.*

### repute

* *noun*, the opinion generally held of someone or something; the state of being generally regarded in a particular way. 名声。
* *[example]: China is catching up fast as its citizens make increasing use of mortgages, credit cards, bank loans and online lenders of varying repute.*

### shady

* *adjective*, of doubtful honesty or legality.
* *[example]: But late payers are still prone to abuse, especially if they have borrowed from shady people.*

### outcry

* *noun*, a strong expression of public disapproval or anger.
* *[example]: Two years ago a 22-year-old man was jailed for life after stabbing and killing a collector who, he alleged, had exposed himself to his mother (after an outcry, his sentence was cut to five years).*

### hassle

* *verb*, harass; pester(trouble or annoy (someone) with frequent or persistent requests or interruptions).
* *[example]: Disreputable ones have required borrowers to surrender the contacts stored on their mobile phones, so that family and colleagues can be hassled if payments are missed.*

### abound

* *verb*, exist in large numbers or amounts.
* *[example]: Reports abound of suicides by women in debt who fear being subjected to such humiliation.*

### eradicate

* *verb*, destroy completely; put an end to.
* *[example]: It is already trying to educate the public about the risks of borrowing and to eradicate the most shady lenders.*

### overhaul

* *noun*, a thorough examination of machinery or a system, with repairs or changes made if necessary.

### insolvency

* *noun*, the state of being insolvent; inability to pay one's debts.
* *[example]: Reformers had hoped to create one during an overhaul of China’s corporate insolvency laws, which was completed in 2006.*

### balk

* *verb*, hesitate or be unwilling to accept an idea or undertaking.

### debt-dodgers

* like the draft dodgers of generations past, choose to leave the United States permanently to get away from their debt. Once you're out of the country, the US government doesn't have an effective way to come after you and make you pay your debts.
* *[example]: In the end lawmakers balked, fearing it would encourage the country’s legions of debt-dodgers.*

### defaulter

* *noun*, a person who fails to fulfill a duty, obligation, or undertaking, especially to pay a debt.
* *[example]: It is placing defaulters on blacklists.*

### intrusive

* *adjective*, causing disruption or annoyance through being unwelcome or uninvited.

### sanction

* *noun*, a threatened penalty for disobeying a law or rule.
* *[example]: Many people support the use of these sweeping and intrusive sanctions.*

### reckon

* *verb*, establish by counting or calculation; calculate.
* *[example]: The supreme court reckons that, in nearly one-fifth of civil and commercial lawsuits that are dealt with by courts, defendants are incapable of paying the sums required of them by judges.*

### respite

* *noun*, a short period of rest or relief from something difficult or unpleasant.
* *[example]: Introducing a personal bankruptcy system would help those who need a respite as well as reduce financial risks, says Li Shuguang of the China University of Political Science and Law.*

### hazard

* *noun*, a danger or risk.

### flurry

* **noun*, a number of things arriving or happening during the same period.
* *[example]: They worry about moral hazard, and whether China’s courts have the capacity to handle a flurry of individual bankruptcy cases.*

### draft

* *noun*, a preliminary version of a piece of writing.
* *[example]: Drafting such rules is complicated by widely held prejudices against people who fall into debt, says Huifen Yin of Shanghai University of Political Science and Law.*

## [More evidence that autism is linked to gut bacteria](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2019/05/30/more-evidence-that-autism-is-linked-to-gut-bacteria)

### gut

* *noun*, the lower alimentary canal or a part of this; the intestine.

### Paradigm shift

* *noun*, a fundamental change in approach or underlying assumptions.

### plate tectonics

* Plate tectonics is the theory that Earth's outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core. The plates act like a hard and rigid shell compared to Earth's mantle. 板块构造论。

### zillion

* *noun*, an extremely large number of people or things.

### non-pathogenic

### hitherto
* *[example]: This is a recognition that the zillions of apparently non-pathogenic bacteria on and in human bodies, hitherto largely ignored, are actually important for people’s health.*

### psychiatrist
* *[example]: What causes asd has baffled psychiatrists and neurologists since the syndrome was first described, in the mid-20th century, by Hans Asperger and Leo Kanner.*

### rodent
* *[example]: But the evidence is pointing towards the bacteria of the gut. That suggestion has been reinforced by two recently published studies—one on human beings and one on laboratory rodents.*

### intestine
* *[example]: They found that the children in their sample were missing hundreds of the thousand-plus bacterial species that colonise a “neurotypical” person’s intestine.*

### ferment
### polymer
### alimentary
### canal
* *[example]: This bug, which makes its living by fermenting otherwise-indigestible carbohydrate polymers in dietary fibre, is abundant in the alimentary canals of farmers and hunter-gatherers in places like Africa, rare in western Europeans and Americans, and nearly nonexistent in children with asd.*

### diarrhoea
* *[example]: MTT is a prolonged version of a process already used to treat infection by a bug called Clostridium difficile, which causes life-threatening diarrhoea.*

### faecal
* *[example]: It involves transplanting carefully prepared doses of faecal bacteria from a healthy individual to a patient.*

### antacid
### administer
* *[example]: The researchers gave the children, first, an oral antibiotic, a bowel cleanse and an oral antacid (to ensure that microbes administered by mouth would survive their passage through the stomach).*

### rectal
* *[example]: They followed this up with either an oral or a rectal dose of gut bacteria, and then, for seven to eight weeks, a daily antacid-assisted oral dose.*

### quadruple
* *[example]: In addition, those of another species, Bifidobacterium, had quadrupled.*

### probiotic
* *[example]: Bifidobacterium is what is known as a “probiotic” organism—something that acts as a keystone species in the alimentary ecosystem, keeping the mixture of gut bacteria healthy.*

### interbre
* *[example]: They then interbred the recipient mice and studied the offspring of these crosses—animals that had picked up the transplanted bacteria from their mothers at birth.*

### counter
* *[example]: In particular, it counters the action of another neurotransmitter, glutamate, that excites nervous activity in the brain.*

### inexplicably
* *[example]: In particular, it counters the action of another neurotransmitter, glutamate, that excites nervous activity in the brain.*

### take break off
* *[example]: Some researchers suspect that this deficiency takes the brakes off glutamate’s excitatory activity, thus stimulating things like repetitive behaviour.*

## [Britain’s constitutional time-bomb](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2019/05/30/britains-constitutional-time-bomb)

### coup

* *noun*, a sudden, violent, and illegal seizure of power from a government.
* *[example] In the Mother of Parliaments democracy has blossomed for over 300 years without coups, revolution or civil war, Irish independence aside.*

### remorseless

* *adjective*, without regret or guilt.

### shove

* *verb*, push (someone or something) roughly.

### dynamite

* *adjective*, something that has the potential to generate extreme reactions or to have devastating repercussions.

### at loggerhead

* The idiom `at loggerheads`, which usually functions as a predicate adjective, means in a dispute.

### defuse

* *verb*, to make a difficult or dangerous situation calmer by reducing or removing its cause.
* *[example]: The remorseless logic of Brexit has shoved a stick of constitutional dynamite beneath the United Kingdom—and, given the difficulty of constitutional reform in a country at loggerheads, there is little that can be done to defuse it.*

### machination

* *noun*, complicated and secret plans to get power or control or to gain an advantage.
* *[example]: There will doubtless be more parliamentary machinations to stop a no-deal Brexit or force one through. The constitution is unclear on whether the executive or Parliament should prevail. It is unclear how to even choose between them.*

### jumble

* *noun*, an untidy and confused mixture of things, feelings, or ideas:
* *[example]: Behind this uncertainty lies the fact that Britain’s constitution is a jumble of contradictions scattered across countless laws, conventions and rules.*

### cede

* *verb*, to allow someone else to have or own something, especially unwillingly or because you are forced to do so.

### referendum

* *noun*, a vote in which all the people in a country or an area are asked to give their opinion about or decide an important political or social question.
* *[example]: Under Tony Blair and David Cameron, the Westminster Parliament ceded power to assemblies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and to the people directly through referendums.*

### constituent

* *noun*, one of the parts that a substance or combination is made of.

### nail down

* to find out or identify (something) exactly.
* *[example]: It is unclear how MPS should reconcile their duty to honour the referendum with the duty of each one of them to act in the best interests of their constituents. Other countries avoid that mistake. Ireland holds referendums, too. But Article 46 of its constitution is clear: the people vote on a change only after a bill has passed through the Dail with the details nailed down.*

### Tory

* *noun*, a member of the British Conservative Party.
* *[example]: Yet, at least one of the Tory leadership candidates is ruling out any further referendums.*

### sucession

* *noun*, the act of becoming independent and no longer part of a country, area, organization, etc.
* *[example]: Breaking up the union would be a constitutional nightmare—if only because no process for secession is laid down.*

### fraught

* *adjective*, causing or having extreme worry or anxiety.

### north of the border

* Scotland, in England and Wales
* *[example]: Merely choosing to hold a second Scottish referendum could be fraught. Mr Johnson is loathed north of the border.*

### enshrine

* *verb*, to enclose in or as if in a shrine; to preserve or cherish as sacred.
* *[example]: The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which enshrines EU citizens’ rights in law, would no longer govern British courts.*

### scrap

* *verb*, to not continue with a system or plan.
* *[example] Some would-be Tory leaders, such as Dominic Raab, want to scrap domestic legislation that embeds those rights.*

### moan

* *verb*, to make a long, low sound of pain, suffering, or another strong emotion.

### meddle

* *verb*, to try to change or have an influence on things that are not your responsibility, especially by criticizing in a damaging or annoying way.
* *[example]: If Parliament passed oppressive new laws, the courts might complain, but they could not stop it. Voters who moan about meddling European judges might start to have second thoughts.*

### ramshackle

* *adjective*, badly or untidily made and likely to break or fall down easily.

### row

* *verb*, If two people row or if one person rows with another, they have a noisy argument.
* *[example]: And that leads to a final worry. Britain’s ramshackle, easily amended constitution is vulnerable to the radicalised politics produced by three years spent rowing about Brexit.*

### blithe

* *adjective*, happy and without worry.
* *[example]: Most Britons seem blithely unaware of the test ahead. Perhaps they believe that their peculiar way of doing things always leads to stability.*

### destined

* *adjective*, certain to meet (a particular fate). 注定的。
* *[example]: Brexit has long been a political crisis. Now it looks destined to become a constitutional crisis, too. It is one for which Britain is woefully underprepared.*
