nozzle
colcannon
staple: A main or important element of something, especially of a diet.
stint
entrenched
an ocean way,


June 8
shove
tripped
punches
cast a shadow
battered
hastily
chronicle 
Green Beret
long-snapper
anthem: A rousing or uplifting song identified with a particular group, body, or cause.
reverence
sorbet
tin
pitted
Campari
rookie
a late run
mundane
Coachella

June 9
souring
conundrum
root out
fraying
shifting on
bunker
vigilance
resurfaced
hopscotched
cacophony
hopped onto 
a dozen or so
remained at a standstill
marquee
graffiti
plywood
get a bad rap
dismissed as survial fare 
pantry(ies)
anchovy crostini
spruced up
splurging
flocking to
wager on
facing off
lifted 
uprisings


June10
polling  station
stationery
thin staffing
high turnout
bode well
runoff: A further competion, election
rally behand:
change their stance
floated a false theory
provocateur
corrections officers
protect his grip on power
an ominous prospect for a country
malign: Speak about (someone) in a spitefully critical manner.
gurdwara: A Sikh place of worship.
trilogy: A group of three related novels, plays, films, operas, or albums.
better off doing sth
vowel

June 11
flocked to
caveat: A warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitations.
gross: (especially of wrongdoing) very obvious and unacceptable; blatant.
preposterous: Contrary to reason or common sense; utterly absurd or ridiculous.
standoff: A stalemate or deadlock between two equally matched opponents in a dispute or conflict.
scorn: The feeling or belief that someone or something is worthless or despicable; contempt.
The Fed projects a long crunch
saxophonist: A person who plays the saxophone.
searing: Extremely hot or intense.
sow: Plant (seed) by scattering it on or in the earth.
age·ism:Prejudice or discrimination on the grounds of a person's age.
spawn: (of a fish, frog, mollusk, crustacean, etc.) release or deposit eggs.
ca·nine: Relating to or resembling a dog or dogs.
per·me·ate:Spread throughout (something); pervade.
weighed in
botched: (of a task) carried out badly or carelessly.

front runner: 
turnout: The number of people attending or taking part in an event, especially the number of people voting in an election.
rapport: Rapport is a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned are “in sync” with each other, understand each other's feelings or ideas, and communicate smoothly.
dampen 
dropped out
post-morterm
dissent: The expression or holding of opinions at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially held.
cultural relic
subjecting the company to scrutiny
sue: institute legal proceedings against (a person or institution), typically for redress.
venue:the place where something happens, especially an organized event such as a concert, conference, or sports event.
decrepit
airy: (of a room or building) spacious, well lit, and well ventilated.
all walks of life.
recite: repeat aloud or declaim (a poem or passage) from memory before an audience.
mon·o·logue: A long speech by one actor in a play or movie, or as part of a theatrical or broadcast program.
com·mu·nal: Shared by all members of a community; for common use.
 panes of plexiglass
prowls the halls.
vat: A large tank or tub used to hold liquid, especially in industry.
tart: an open pastry case containing a filling.
grap·ple: Engage in a close fight or struggle without weapons; wrestle.
sti·fle: Make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.
swell·ing: An abnormal enlargement of a part of the body, typically as a result of an accumulation of fluid.
slate:
shaggy mane
gray roots
shaggy beards
chipped nails
Juneteenth
commemorate

June 14
resignations
in the trenches
chant: A repeated rhythmic phrase, typically one shouted or sung in unison by a crowd.
om·i·nous·ly: In a way that suggests that something bad is going to happen.
uptick 
ramping up
vetted
fandom
take aim at
tune in 
menstruate
fare: Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.


June 15
progressivism
aperture
backdrop
Diphtheria
cholera
poliovirus
measles
flouting
antagonism
revolt
toppled

June 16
antitrust
census
dissent
lopsided
seg·re·ga·tion·ist: Relating to or advocating the policy of enforced separation of different racial groups.
creed
ploy
plaintiff
deli
autonomy
vector
inmates
revoke
detente
liaison
wreath
rebuked 
libel
Maytag-repairman



June 17
clubs
colossal
muf·fled: (of a sound) not loud because of being obstructed in some way; muted.
throw up hands
willy-nilly
steroid
dexamethasone
cytokine storm
mandate
clash
brawl
suc·cumb: Fail to resist pressure, temptation, or some other negative force.
paroled: The release of a prisoner temporarily (for a special purpose) or permanently before the completion of a sentence, on the promise of good behavior.
felon: a person who has been convicted of a felony.
nom de guerre
comrade
conspiracist
full-throated
dished on waiting tables
foil line purse
philharmonic
airborne
crammed
flut·ist: A flute player; a flautist.

ensembles
heed: Pay attention to; take notice of.
slime molds
prescient

June 18
rushing forth
usually not for quotation
hold out hope
tailspin: An aircraft's diving descent combined with rotation.
border on
delusional
embark on
memoir: A historical account or biography written from personal knowledge or special sources.
czar/tsar: An emperor of Russia before 1917
receding
flare: A sudden brief burst of bright flame or light.
policing overhaul bill:
Maque choux
odds and ends
chile/chili
Ca·jun: A member of any of the largely self-contained communities in the bayou areas of southern Louisiana formed by descendants of French Canadians, speaking an archaic form of French.
cad·die:A person who carries a golfer's clubs and provides other assistance during a match.
home-court advantage
posh 
lodging
benevolent attacker
cringe:Bend one's head and body in fear or in a servile manner.
an·tics: Foolish, outrageous, or amusing behavior.
bassinet


June 19
barred 
census
in lieu of 
emblem
bleak
withdrew from 
backlash
embattle
blitz
hurdles
Craigslist
rub
seasoning 
white lion’s mane
portobellos
tram·po·line: A strong fabric sheet connected by springs to a frame, used as a springboard and landing area in doing acrobatic or gymnastic exercises.
or·tho·pe·dic: Relating to the branch of medicine dealing with the correction of deformities of bones or 
muscles.
tib·i·a: The inner and typically larger of the two bones between the knee and the ankle (or the equivalent joints in other terrestrial vertebrates), parallel with the fibula.
rib·ald: Referring to sexual matters in an amusingly coarse or irreverent way.
vul·gar: Lacking sophistication or good taste; unrefined.
mock·u·men·ta·ry: A motion picture or television program that takes the form of a serious documentary in order to satirize its subject.
mundanity 
a ridiculous air
Night sky streaker


June 21
reinvigorate 
buffeted 
shrugging off
rowdy 
grim
unhinged 
desecrating 
purging 
focal point
ep·i·sode
unabashed 
paternal
maternal
man·ne·quin: A dummy used to display clothes in a store window.
cutout
vogue: Dance to music in such a way as to imitate the characteristic poses struck by a model on a catwalk.
drag queen: a man who dresses up in women's clothes, typically for the purposes of entertainment.
plat·y·pus: A semiaquatic egg-laying mammal which frequents lakes and streams in eastern Australia. It has a sensitive pliable bill shaped like that of a duck, webbed feet with venomous spurs, and dense fur.


June 22
rogue: A dishonest or unprincipled man.
polling deficit
gaze
stuuned
odyssey: a long, exciting journey:
horse·back: Done while mounted on a horse.
flank: Be on each or on one side of.
pre·side: Be in the position of authority in a meeting or other gathering.
a·piece: (used after a noun or an amount) to, for, or by each one of a group.
gumbo
okra
lin·ger: Stay in a place longer than necessary because of a reluctance to leave.
nu·anced: Characterized by subtle shades of meaning or expression.
hazmat suit
ro·de·o: An exhibition or contest in which cowboys show their skill at riding broncos, roping calves, wrestling steers, etc.
Tumbleweeds 

or·gan·ist: A person who plays the organ.
Snooty people 
work·out: A session of vigorous physical exercise or training.


June 23
un·seat: Cause (someone) to fall from a horse or bicycle.
flank: The side of a person's or animal's body between the ribs and the hip.
prox·y: The authority to represent someone else, especially in voting.
em·bold·en: Give (someone) the courage or confidence to do something or to behave in a certain way.
perk: Become or make more cheerful, lively, or interesting.
cau·cus: (in some US states) a meeting at which local members of a political party register their preference among candidates running for office or select delegates to attend a convention.
ab·sen·tee: A person who is expected or required to be present at a place or event but is not.
pil·grim: A person who journeys to a sacred place for religious reasons.
crunch: Crush (a hard or brittle foodstuff) with the teeth, making a loud but muffled grinding sound.
fennel
cumin
broil: Cook (meat or fish) by exposure to direct, intense radiant heat.
rim: Form or act as an outer edge or rim for.
garnish
rook·ie: A new recruit, especially in the army or police.

June 24
address v.
tumbling: (typically of a person) fall suddenly, clumsily, or headlong.
ca·ve·at: A warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitations.
dispatched: 
pilgrimage:
cruiser:
gripping story
berth: A ship's allotted place at a wharf or dock.
le·ni·ent: (of punishment or a person in authority) permissive, merciful, or tolerant.
shut·off: A device used for stopping a supply or operation.
salvage: Rescue (a wrecked or disabled ship or its cargo) from loss at sea.
unsolicited:
crave:
wa·ger: More formal term for bet.

June 25
plague: Cause continual trouble or distress to.
restitution: 
dire: (of a situation or event) extremely serious or urgent.
dim: (of a light, color, or illuminated object) not shining brightly or clearly.
take crumbs on the table:  An insufficient or unfair amount of something provided by one when one has a sufficient or abundant amount.
punt this ball: Kick (the ball) after it is dropped from the hands and before it reaches the ground.
jog: Run at a steady gentle pace, especially on a regular basis as a form of physical exercise.
cock·roach: A scavenging insect that resembles a beetle, having long antennae and legs and typically a broad, flattened body. Several tropical kinds have become established worldwide as household pests.
e·vic·tion: The action of expelling someone, especially a tenant, from a property; expulsion.
mush·y: Soft and pulpy.
dough: A thick, malleable mixture of flour and liquid, used for baking into bread or pastry.
cast-iron pan
smudge: Cause (something) to become messily smeared by rubbing it.
sogginess
noir: A genre of crime film or fiction characterized by cynicism, fatalism, and moral ambiguity.
heist: A robbery.
mem·oir: A historical account or biography written from personal knowledge or special sources.
veep·stakes: The notional competition among politicians to be chosen as a party's candidate for vice president.

June 26
statehood
ref·er·en·dum: A general vote by the electorate on a single political question which has been referred to them for a direct decision.
pro·po·nent: A person who advocates a theory, proposal, or project.
stoke:
hard·scrab·ble: Involving hard work and struggle.
grenade
re·tal·i·a·tion: The action of returning a military attack; counterattack.
in·dict·ment: A formal charge or accusation of a serious crime.
he·don·ism: The pursuit of pleasure; sensual self-indulgence.
psy·che·del·ic: A psychedelic drug.
par·ti·san: A strong supporter of a party, cause, or person.
pu·ree: A smooth, creamy substance made of liquidized or crushed fruit or vegetables.
en·gross: Absorb all the attention or interest of.
sem·blance: The outward appearance or apparent form of something, especially when the reality is different.


June 28
curb
yearn: Have an intense feeling of longing for something, typically something that one has lost or been separated from.
normalcy: The condition of being normal; the state of being usual, typical, or expected.
voting booth: 
o·vert: Done or shown openly; plainly or readily apparent, not secret or hidden.
con·vul·sion: A sudden, violent, irregular movement of a limb or of the body, caused by involuntary contraction of muscles and associated especially with brain disorders such as epilepsy, the presence of certain toxins or other agents in the blood, or fever in children.
dec·i·mate: Kill, destroy, or remove a large percentage or part of.
pleth·o·ra: A large or excessive amount of (something).
sapped v.: gradually weaken or destroy (a person's strength or power).
stall: (of a motor vehicle or its engine) stop running, typically because of an overload on the engine.
de·lib·er·ate: Engage in long and careful consideration.
o·ver·due: Not having arrived, happened, or been done by the expected time.
missing out on: To lose the chance or opportunity to do or experience something.
nautili
cham·bered: (especially of a gun) having a chamber of a particular kind.
can·yon: A deep gorge, typically one with a river flowing through it.
dune: A mound or ridge of sand or other loose sediment formed by the wind, especially on the sea coast or in a desert.
reefs:
landslides: 
fuss: a display of unnecessary or excessive excitement, activity, or interest.
mocktail:
quilting:
bench: Exhibit (a dog) at a show.
ballpark peanuts

June 29
flout: Openly disregard (a rule, law or convention).
mount: Climb up (stairs, a hill, or other rising surface).
trail someone or something by something: to have a smaller score than someone or something by a specific number of points.
em·blem: A heraldic device or symbolic object as a distinctive badge of a nation, organization, or family.
fray: a situation of intense activity, typically one incorporating an element of aggression or competition.
vid·e·o·tape: Make a video recording of (an event or broadcast).
o·ver·sight: the action of overseeing something.
seared: (of food) fried quickly at a high temperature so as to retain its juices in subsequent cooking.
cash·ew: An edible kidney-shaped nut, rich in oil and protein, which is roasted and shelled before it can be eaten. Oil is extracted from the shells and used as a lubricant and insecticide and in the production of plastics.
snap peas:
pro·tag·o·nist: The leading character or one of the major characters in a drama, movie, novel, or other fictional text.
narcissistic: Having an excessive or erotic interest in oneself and one's physical appearance.
cam·e·o: A piece of jewelry, typically oval in shape, consisting of a portrait in profile carved in relief on a background of a different color.
stand-in: a person who stands in for another, especially in a performance; a substitute.


June 30
outlaw: A person who has broken the law, especially one who remains at large or is a fugitive.
one broad brush:
Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), was a landmark decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in which the Court ruled that the Constitution of the United States protects a pregnant woman's liberty to choose to have an abortion without excessive government restriction.
compilation: The action or process of producing something, especially a list, book, or report, by assembling information collected from other sources.
disseminated: Having spread throughout an organ or the body.
complacent: Showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements.
stifle: Make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.
telecommute: work from home, making use of the Internet, email, and the telephone.
revamp: Give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to.
spree: A spell or sustained period of unrestrained activity of a particular kind.
opulent: Ostentatiously rich and luxurious or lavish.
outmaneuver: Evade (an opponent) by moving faster or with greater agility.
forfeit: Lose or be deprived of (property or a right or privilege) as a penalty for wrongdoing.
exoneration: The action of officially absolving someone from blame; vindication. Exoneration occurs when the conviction for a crime is reversed, either through demonstration of innocence, a flaw in the conviction, or otherwise.
coleslaw: Sliced raw cabbage mixed with mayonnaise and other vegetables, eaten as a salad.
earthy: Resembling or suggestive of earth or soil.
evoke: Bring or recall to the conscious mind.
Brooklyn drill music:

July 1
flout: Openly disregard (a rule, law or convention).
QAnon: QAnon is a far-right conspiracy theory detailing a supposed secret plot by an alleged "deep state" against U.S. President Donald Trump and his supporters.
unseat: remove from a position of power or authority.
mushrooming: Rapidly growing, expanding, or developing.
hop on:
bode: Be an omen of a particular outcome.
persona: The aspect of someone's character that is presented to or perceived by others.
demarcation: The action of fixing the boundary or limits of something.
bust out
balsamic
glaze
spike
bars of the whistling 
inescapably: In a way that cannot be avoided or ignored; undeniably.

July 2
stall: v, (of a motor vehicle or its engine) stop running, typically because of an overload on the engine.
The economic rebound is stalling.

spiking: to undergo a sudden sharp increase in (temperature or fever)
Coronavirus deaths in the U.S. have been falling for most of the last 10 weeks — to about 600 a day recently, down from more than 2,000 in late April — even though the overall caseload was holding fairly steady for much of that period and has lately been spiking.

subpoenas: A writ ordering a person to attend a court.
Rockland County, in suburban New York, issued subpoenas to eight people who have refused to provide information about a party that appears to have become a superspreader event.

sputter: Make a series of soft explosive sounds, typically when being heated or as a symptom of a fault.
    Greg Ip, a Wall Street Journal economics columnist, adds, “After recovering rapidly from mid-April through mid-June the economy has shown signs of sputtering in the past two weeks.”

militia: A military force that is raised from the civil population to supplement a regular army in an emergency.
    The White House continued to play down the conclusion by intelligence agencies that Russia paid bounties to Taliban-backed militias to kill American soldiers.

burglary: Entry into a building illegally with intent to commit a crime, especially theft.
    Jonathan Irons, a Missouri man serving a 50-year sentence for burglary and assault, was freed after his sentence was overturned.

appellate: (especially of a court) concerned with or dealing with applications for decisions to be reversed.
    A New York appellate judge ruled that Simon & Schuster could release a tell-all book by Mary Trump, the president’s niece, reversing a lower court.

rowing: The sport or pastime of propelling a boat by means of oars.
    When Angela Madsen, a gifted athlete, found herself paralyzed from the waist down, she took up rowing and started winning gold medals. 

tingle: Experience or cause to experience a slight prickling or stinging sensation.
    An oil that tingles and transforms

sauté: Fry quickly in a little hot fat.

    Realizing I didn’t speak Chinese, they signaled to the waitress to bring me a small bowl of oil in which I could dip my sautéed vegetables.

prickly: Covered in prickles.

ash: A tree with silver-gray bark and compound leaves. The ash is widely distributed throughout north temperate regions where it can form forests.

    But the oil — which also goes by the name prickly ash oil — is not easy to find in the U.S.

reminisce: Indulge in enjoyable recollection of past events.

    But we can still reminisce about iconic movies of summers past.

blissed out: Slang. to experience bliss or euphoria
gleefully: In an exuberantly or triumphantly joyful manner.
sack races:

    Face painting at street festivals, sunbathers blissed out on beaches, children gleefully competing in sack races: Take a scroll through these archival photos from Independence Days of yesteryear.

elicit: Evoke or draw out (a response, answer, or fact) from someone in reaction to one's own actions or questions.

    Though the pictures of large crowds, close contact and communal celebrations elicit a very different kind of nostalgia now, they’re a comforting reminder of what life might look like again, eventually.

## July 4

### tumultuous

* *adjective*,  making a loud, confused noise; uproarious.
* *[example]: Perhaps we should have taken that as a hint of the tumultuous year ahead.*

### precipice

* *noun*, a very steep rock face or cliff, especially a tall one.

### plunge

* *verb*, jump or dive quickly and energetically.
* *[example]: General Suleimani’s killing propelled the U.S. to the precipice of war with Iran and plunged the world into seven days of roiling uncertainty.*

### draft

* *noun*, 征兵
* *[example]: Online searches for “will there be a draft?” soared.*

### tantalizing

* *adjective*, Tormenting or teasing with the sight or promise of something unobtainable.
It was a tantalizing prospect.

### privy

* *adjective*, sharing in the knowledge of (something secret or private).
* *[example]: Mr. Bolton, the former national security adviser, above in 2019, was privy to the inner workings of the White House.*

### divulge

* *verb*, Make known (private or sensitive information).
* *[example], He was said to be deeply troubled by Mr. Trump’s efforts to pressure Ukraine, and had even written a memoir that, when it was finally released months later, divulged, as promised, much of the inside story.*

### acquittal

* *noun*, A judgment that a person is not guilty of the crime with which the person has been charged.

### hang over the trial

* *[example]: The possibility of his testimony — and of an outcome that wasn’t a party-line acquittal — hung over the trial for weeks.*

### acquit

* *verb*, Free (someone) from a criminal charge by a verdict of not guilty.
* *[example]: The Senate voted against hearing from Mr. Bolton, and days later voted to acquit Mr. Trump.*

staunch: Loyal and committed in attitude.
But his staunch support among Black voters powered a comeback in South Carolina.

blowout: A sudden rupture or malfunction of a part or an apparatus due to pressure, in particular the bursting of an automobile tire.
    The one-two-three punch of support from Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar and Beto O’Rourke led to blowout victories on Super Tuesday, effectively spelling the beginning of the end of the competition.

jarring blow
    Prince Harry and Meghan delivered a jarring blow to Britain’s royal family when they announced on Jan. 8 that they would “step back” from their official duties.

rogue: A dishonest or unprincipled man.
The couple did not originally have the queen’s approval for their plan to become part-time royals, and went rogue to get ahead of a leak.

sprang up
Public memorials sprang up overnight, including one in the plaza outside Staples Center, the arena where Bryant had crafted so many singular moments for the Lakers over the course of his 20-year career.

downfall: A loss of power, prosperity, or status.
mogul: An important or powerful person, especially in the motion picture or media industry.
His sentencing capped a sharp downfall for the once-powerful media mogul that started in October 2017 when several women openly accused him of sexual assault and harassment, and fundamentally altered the perception of sex crimes and power dynamics.

scramble: to move with urgency or panic
contagion: a contagious disease
Two weeks later, the virus was on the front page of The Times as China scrambled to contain the contagion.

upswing: An increase in strength or quantity; an upward trend.
The upswing in May and June, measured against the depths of March and April, make a range of economic indicators look as if they are soaring.

trickle down: relating to or being an effect caused gradually by remote or indirect influences
That will trickle down! Contributing strongly to that? More and more time spent online, the vast majority of that in apps.

counterfeit: Made in exact imitation of something valuable or important with the intention to deceive or defraud.
On Memorial Day, a graphic video captured the police killing of a Black man suspected of using a counterfeit $20 bill.

scores: reason, ground
crest: Reach the top of (something such as a hill or wave).
The phrase has been a part of scores of deaths in police custody, but this time, national outrage crested over the use of deadly police restraints and the treatment of African-Americans, sparking a deep examination of the country’s racist past and present.

## July 6

bustling: (of a place) full of activity.
    Schools in Japan and much of Europe have reopened. Restaurants in Iceland are bustling.
full swing:
    Restaurants in Iceland are bustling. The South Korean baseball season is in full swing.
Broadway star:
    Nick Cordero, a 41-year-old Broadway star known for his tough-guy roles in “Bullets Over Broadway,” “Waitress” and “A Bronx Tale,” died after a three-month battle with the virus.
plastered:
    Notes that had plastered the walls of pro-democracy businesses have vanished.

bubonic plague:
    A herdsman in Inner Mongolia was infected with bubonic plague, Chinese health officials said, a sign that some old health threats remain.

mascot: A person or thing that is supposed to bring good luck or that is used to symbolize a particular event or organization.
    IDEA OF THE DAY: RACIST MASCOT PSYCHOLOGY.

inordinately: 
    The mascots “function as inordinately powerful communicators, to natives and nonnatives alike, of how American Indians should look and behave,” the psychologists wrote.

trophy: A cup or other decorative object awarded as a prize for a victory or success.
    There are no other team names with skin colors, and this name recalls a violent ritual of taking human bodies as trophies.

slur: an insinuation or allegation about someone that is likely to insult them or damage their reputation.
duel: fight a duel or duels. 
    Many tribal leaders have condemned the name; NPR has explained its history as a slur; Stephanie Fryberg of the University of Michigan has explained the dueling opinion polls about the name; and the Cleveland Indians are also reviewing their name.

fermented: (of a substance) undergo fermentation.
    Yes, the word also refers to the delicious fermented cabbage side dish, but it’s “an umbrella term for a much larger world of dishes you can find on any given Korean table,” he writes. “You can kimchi just about anything.”

fennel: An aromatic yellow-flowered European plant of the parsley family, with feathery leaves.
    The base sauce is versatile and can also be used with other vegetables, such as thinly sliced fennel or juicy grape tomatoes.

derby:
    Other pro sports leagues struggling with the pandemic could learn a thing or two from women’s roller derby.

dramedy: A movie, play, or broadcast program that combines elements of drama and comedy.
    My colleague Sanam Yar recommends tuning into the dramedy “Ramy.” She writes:

surreal: Having the qualities of surrealism; bizarre.
    It’s also occasionally surreal: One episode involves a dream sequence with Osama bin Laden.

boorish: Rough and bad-mannered; coarse.

lightsaber: (in science fiction) a sword whose blade is in the form of a laser or powerful beam of light, as used by the Jedi knights in the Star Wars movies.
    Here’s today’s Mini Crossword, and a clue: Green lightsaber user (four letters).

# July 7
racial appeals:
    President Trump’s racial appeals don’t seem to be working.
flip side of the idea:
    Steve Bannon, who helped run President Trump’s campaign, described the flip side of the idea, in 2017: “The Democrats,” Bannon said, “I want them to talk about racism every day.”

stoke v.: Add coal or other solid fuel to (a fire, furnace, boiler, etc.).
     “Almost every day in the last two weeks, Mr. Trump has sought to stoke white fear and resentment,” Maggie Haberman writes.

slump: Sit, lean, or fall heavily and limply, especially with a bent back.
    Trump’s poll numbers are slumping, and some of his 2016 supporters cite racial issues as a reason they plan to vote for Joe Biden.

ensuing: Occurring afterward or as a result.
    The horror of the George Floyd video and the ensuing protest movement have also changed the minds of many Americans.

wedge issue: a divisive political issue, especially one that is raised by a candidate for public office in hopes of attracting or alienating an opponent's supporters.
    “As long as that’s true,” The Times’s Nate Cohn told me, “I don’t see how he has the freedom to employ wedge issues.”

mire: Cause to become stuck in mud.
    New York City lost a million jobs when it shut down nearly four months ago and is mired in its worst economic slump since the 1970s.

deterrent: A thing that discourages or is intended to discourage someone from doing something.
    One deterrent for going online-only: Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced yesterday that international students enrolled at universities without in-person classes would have to leave the country or transfer to another college.

Fresh off:
    Fresh off a Super Bowl victory, the Kansas City Chiefs signed quarterback Patrick Mahomes to a 10-year contract extension worth $503 million.

shun: Persistently avoided, ignored, or rejected.
    And Colin Kaepernick, the activist quarterback shunned by the N.F.L., has signed a deal with Disney to produce stories about race and injustice.

brash: Self-assertive in a rude, noisy, or overbearing way.
fiddler: A person who plays the violin, especially one who plays folk music.
    “If you don’t like the way I’m livin’/You just leave this long haired country boy alone.” So sang Charlie Daniels, and, if nothing else, he lived large: A brash, down-home singer, songwriter and blazing fiddler, Daniels had hits on both the pop and country charts while his politics swung from left to right.

unanimous: (of two or more people) fully in agreement.
    
    In a unanimous Supreme Court decision yesterday — holding that members of the Electoral College cannot vote for whichever candidate they want — Justice Elena Kagan referred to both the musical “Hamilton” and to the television show “Veep.”

canon: A general law, rule, principle, or criterion by which something is judged
rendition: A performance or interpretation, especially of a dramatic role or piece of music.
    
    The chief justice, 65, also drew on the classic rock canon at the argument of a copyright case in 2011. “What about Jimi Hendrix, right?” he asked. “He has a distinctive rendition of the national anthem.”

sly: Having or showing a cunning and deceitful nature.
indelible: (of ink or a pen) making marks that cannot be removed.
    
    That was a sly reference to “867-5309/Jenny,” Tommy Tutone’s indelible 1981 hit, which reached No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and will still get people of a certain age onto the dance floor at college reunions.

scone: A small unsweetened or lightly sweetened biscuit-like cake made from flour, fat, and milk and sometimes having added fruit.
    
    Joanne Chang’s maple-blueberry scones.

funnel: A tube or pipe that is wide at the top and narrow at the bottom, used for guiding liquid or powder into a small opening.
angst: A feeling of deep anxiety or dread, typically an unfocused one about the human condition or the state of the world in general.

    Maple-blueberry scones are “the perfect thing to bake when you’re looking to funnel some angst into something delicious,” writes the cookbook author Dorie Greenspan.

flaky: Breaking or separating easily into small thin pieces.
    
    They are big and glazed and possess a unique texture — tender and flaky at the same time — thanks to a technique for mixing the butter with flour.

reveting: completely engrossing; compelling.
    
    Elisabeth Egan, an editor at The Times Book Review, called the book a “riveting, heartbreaking, sometimes difficult, always inspiring story.”

seamstresses: A woman who sews, especially one who earns her living by sewing.

    The seamstresses of Chanel, Dior and more formed a network to make face masks in quarantine. They’re not done working together.

namesake

imprint:
