# Economist

## [Did cooking in hot springs make humans brainy?](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2019/05/25/did-cooking-in-hot-springs-make-humans-brainy)

### fashion

* *verb*, make into a particular or the required form.
* *[example]: How and why, roughly 2m years ago, early human ancestors evolved large brains and began fashioning relatively advanced stone tools, is one of the great mysteries of evolution.*

### pare

* *verb*, trim (something) by cutting away its outer edges.
* *[example]: As a result, once they had mastered the art, early chefs could pare back their digestive systems and invest the resulting energy savings in building larger brains capable of complex thought.*

### Homo erectus

* Homo erectus (meaning 'upright man') is a species of archaic humans that lived throughout most of the Pleistocene geological epoch.
* *[example]: The sandstones themselves have previously yielded some of the world’s earliest sophisticated Acheulean hand axes: large tear-drop-shaped stone tools that are associated with Homo erectus.*

### flake

* *noun*, a small, flat, thin piece of something, typically one that has broken away or been peeled off from a larger piece.
* *[example]: Creating an Acheulean axe by repeatedly knocking flakes off of a raw stone in order to create two sharp cutting edges requires a significant amount of planning.*

### gorge

* *noun*, a narrow valley between hills or mountains, typically with steep rocky walls and a stream running through it.

### rift

* *noun*, a crack, split, or break in something.
* *[example]: The molecules’ presence suggests that an ancient river within the gorge was once fed by one or more hot springs, fitting nicely with its location within the geologically active East African Rift.*

## [Many Chinese know little about the bloodshed in Beijing 30 years ago](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/many-chinese-know-little-about-the-bloodshed-in-beijing-30-years-ago)

### chore

* *noun*, a routine task, especially a household one.
* *[example]: Three decades after troops used murderous force to clear protesters from Tiananmen Square and central Beijing, covering up that crime has become a bit of a chore.*

### far cry

* The expression far cry means "very different from." The phrase within cry of has been used since the 1600's to mean "close enough to be heard," and far cry came along in the mid-1800's, meaning "too far away to be heard," or a figuratively long distance.

### intone

* *verb*, say or recite with little rise and fall of the pitch of the voice.
* *[example]: But 30 years on this work of repression is carried out with cold, bureaucratic efficiency—a far cry from the terrors of June 3rd and 4th when soldiers and tanks shot and smashed their way into the ceremonial heart of Beijing, as loudspeakers metallically intoned that the army “loves the people”.*

### lone

* *adjective*, having no companions; solitary or single.

### star down

* a situation in which two individuals stare at each other, typically in a hostile or intimidating way, until one is no longer able to maintain eye contact and feels forced to look away.
* *[example]: His offence: labelling bottles of baijiu alcohol with the iconic image of the lone protester who stared down tanks near the square.*

### snatch

* *verb*, quickly seize (something) in a rude or eager way.
* *[example]: Suspects were snatched from homes and workplaces, or off the streets.*

### magistrate

* *noun*, a civil officer or lay judge who administers the law, especially one who conducts a court that deals with minor offenses and holds preliminary hearings for more serious ones.

### cadet

* *noun*, a young trainee in the armed services or police force.

### draw

* *verb*, pull or drag (something such as a vehicle) so as to make it follow behind.
* *[example]: The protests had drawn students and workers, magistrates in court uniforms and police cadets, and journalists from state media who marched beneath banners reading “We want to print the truth”.*

### oust

* *verb*, drive out or expel (someone) from a position or place.
* *[example]: Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party’s leader in 1989, was ousted during the unrest for opposing military action.*

### demonisation

* *noun*, the portrayal of something as wicked and threatening.
* *[example]: In a letter written from house arrest in 1997, he warned that the people would not forget the protests or the party’s demonisation of them.*

### dash

* *verb*, to strike or smash violently, especially so as to break to pieces.

### flicker

* *noun*, a brief occurrence or appearance.
* *[example]: Yet there has been much forgetting, some of it the work of parents who see no good in filling children’s heads with politics. It is not hard to imagine the dream of modern party leaders: that all China should forget the passions, fears and dashed hopes of 1989, so that future anniversaries pass without a flicker of dissent.*

### despite

* *preposition*, without taking any notice of or being influenced by; not prevented by.
* *[example]: Their argument today, in essence, is that China has succeeded because of that use of force, not despite it.*

### heed

* *noun*, attention.
* *[example]: It angers them that foreigners pay such heed to independent-minded people, whether religious believers, feminist campaigners, environmentalists or left-wing students working with unofficial trade unions.*

### majoritarian

* *adjective*, governed by or believing in decision by a majority.
* [example]: China’s leaders want the outside world to believe that they rule in a majoritarian compact accepted by almost all their citizens.*

### social contract

In moral and political philosophy, the social contract is a theory or model that originated during the Age of Enlightenment and usually concerns the legitimacy of the authority of the state over the individual.Social contract arguments typically posit that individuals have consented, either explicitly or tacitly, to surrender some of their freedoms and submit to the authority (of the ruler, or to the decision of a majority) in exchange for protection of their remaining rights or maintenance of the social order.

### grim

* *adjective*, worrying, without hope.

### dystopia

* *noun*, (the idea of) a society in which people do not work well with each other and are not happy.

They would include in that social contract the grim dystopia that they have built in the far-western region of Xinjiang, where perhaps a million members of the Muslim Uighur minority have been sent to re-education camps and millions more endure unsleeping high-tech surveillance.

consent
Nobody knows how stable their support is because China is so secretive, and because the broad contentment of a country enjoying economic growth is easy to mistake for informed consent.

swaggering
For the party’s swaggering, authoritarian ways are a challenge to the universal values which help to define the West.

quel
albeit
He has described the violence in Beijing 30 years ago as a “strong, powerful government” quelling a “riot”, albeit with horrible force.

narcissism
For sure, foreigners have been guilty of a certain narcissism in imagining that ordinary Chinese, as they grow richer, will aspire to Western freedoms. 

pit
They should welcome intra-party disagreements that pit reformers against hardliners.

serenely
unequivocally
For a serenely unified, nationalist Chinese autocracy, unequivocally backed by its people, would be a terror to the world.

## [Hong Kong wants to build massive artificial islands](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/hong-kong-wants-to-build-massive-artificial-islands)

colossal
Last year she unveiled a colossal project, called Lantau Tomorrow Vision.

quasi
On May 25th Hong Kong’s quasi-parliament, the Legislative Council, approved the launch of a feasibility study. Reclamation work is unlikely to start before 2025.

fiscal
That is equivalent to more than half of Hong Kong’s fiscal reserves.

recoup
outlay
The government, citing a report by a professional body of surveyors, says land sales will recoup the full cost of initial outlays on reclamation and infrastructure-building.

come across
meet or find by chance.
But these worries are unlikely to stop Mrs Lam. Wu Chi-wai, another legislator who voted against the feasibility study, says he has never come across one commissioned by the government that concluded a project would not work.

## [President Donald Trump is trashing deals in favour of tariffs](https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2019/06/08/president-donald-trump-is-trashing-deals-in-favour-of-tariffs)

trash
President Donald Trump is trashing deals in favour of tariffs

stiff
The trade element of Trumponomics is a striking departure from previous administrations’ policies, and a stiff challenge to the multilateral trading system.

spook
Tariffs certainly seem to be spooking some into avoiding China

derail
Finally, low tariffs are unlikely on their own to derail the affected economies.

crimp

### margin compresion

* Put simply, margin compression occurs when the costs to make a product or deliver a service rise faster than the sales price of the product or service. Hence, putting pressure on profit margins.
* *[example] Currencies and commodity prices fluctuate all the time, says Paul Bracher of Frost Bankers, a Texas-based supplier of trade finance, and though a 5% tariff would crimp his customers’ profits, as margin compressions go it would be “not that big”.*

retaliate
The Mexican government would retaliate, and business confidence in America would suffer.

### contract

* *verb*,  to make or become shorter or narrower or generally smaller in size.

peso
Economists at Citibank calculate that 25% tariffs could cause Mexico’s gdp to contract by 4.6% if prices and exchange rates do not adjust, or crush the value of the peso by 59% if they do.

timid
Regarding China, they say that earlier efforts failed and multilateral approaches are timid or naive. 

glee
But it also sits ill with Mr Trump’s glee when he actually agrees to a trade deal.

## [China is getting tough on those who fail to pay their debts](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/05/30/china-is-getting-tough-on-those-who-fail-to-pay-their-debts)

written off
On May 9th a local court announced that it had arranged for Mr Ke’s liabilities to be written off.

predicament
Mr Ke—the court did not reveal his full name—had fallen victim to fraud eight years ago. By last year the 54-year-old’s debts totalled 480,000 yuan ($70,000), owed to three banks. But the court took account of Mr Ke’s predicament.

discharge
China, however, still has no such rules for discharging penniless people’s debts.

beneficiary
Officials in Taizhou say Mr Ke is the first beneficiary of a procedure the city’s own judiciary devised for dealing with such cases.

winding-up
insolvent
It is modelled on China’s law relating to the winding-up of insolvent firms.

repute
China is catching up fast as its citizens make increasing use of mortgages, credit cards, bank loans and online lenders of varying repute.

shady
But late payers are still prone to abuse, especially if they have borrowed from shady people.

outcry
Two years ago a 22-year-old man was jailed for life after stabbing and killing a collector who, he alleged, had exposed himself to his mother (after an outcry, his sentence was cut to five years).

hassle
Disreputable ones have required borrowers to surrender the contacts stored on their mobile phones, so that family and colleagues can be hassled if payments are missed.

abound
Reports abound of suicides by women in debt who fear being subjected to such humiliation.

eradicate
It is already trying to educate the public about the risks of borrowing and to eradicate the most shady lenders.

overhaul
insolvency
Reformers had hoped to create one during an overhaul of China’s corporate insolvency laws, which was completed in 2006.

balk
debt-dodgers
In the end lawmakers balked, fearing it would encourage the country’s legions of debt-dodgers.

defaulter
It is placing defaulters on blacklists.

intrusive
sanction
Many people support the use of these sweeping and intrusive sanctions.

reckon
The supreme court reckons that, in nearly one-fifth of civil and commercial lawsuits that are dealt with by courts, defendants are incapable of paying the sums required of them by judges.

respite
Introducing a personal bankruptcy system would help those who need a respite as well as reduce financial risks, says Li Shuguang of the China University of Political Science and Law.

hazard
flurry
They worry about moral hazard, and whether China’s courts have the capacity to handle a flurry of individual bankruptcy cases.

draft
Drafting such rules is complicated by widely held prejudices against people who fall into debt, says Huifen Yin of Shanghai University of Political Science and Law.
