# Economist

## [America is deploying a new economic arsenal to assert its power](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2019/06/06/america-is-deploying-a-new-economic-arsenal-to-assert-its-power)

### reel

* *verb*, lose one's balance and stagger or lurch violently.
* *[example]: Markets reeled, and a Mexican delegation rushed to Washington to sue for peace.*

### macho

* *adjective*, showing aggressive pride in one's masculinity.
* *[example]: Its usually macho government did not put up a fight and promised to preserve “strong ties”.

### sever

* *verb*, put an end to (a connection or relationship); break off.
* *[example]: China faces a ratcheting up of tariffs soon, and its tech giant, Huawei, has been severed from its American suppliers.

### embargo

* *noun*, an official ban on trade or other commercial activity with a particular country.
* *[example]: A tighter embargo on Iran, imposed over European objections, is strangling its economy.*

### arsenal

* *noun*, a collection of weapons and military equipment stored by a country, person, or group.
* *[example]: Enemies and friends know that it is prepared to unleash an economic arsenal to protect its national interest.*

### brinkmanship

* *noun*, Brinkmanship (also brinksmanship) is the practice of trying to achieve an advantageous outcome by pushing dangerous events to the brink of active conflict. It occurs in international politics, foreign policy, labor relations, and (in contemporary settings) military strategy involving the threat of nuclear weapons, and high-stakes litigation.
* *[example]: America is deploying new tactics—poker-style brinkmanship—and new weapons that exploit its role as the nerve centre of the global economy to block the free flow of goods, data, ideas and money across borders.*

### pump up

* *verb*, to fill with enthusiasm or excitement; to fill with or as if with air : INFLATE

### seductive

* *adejctive*, tempting and attractive; enticing.
* *[example]: This pumped-up vision of a 21st-century superpower may be seductive for some.*

### underpin

* *verb*, : SUPPORT, SUBSTANTIATE
* *[example]: But it is also the central node in the network that underpins globalisation.*

### better off

* *adjective*, being in comfortable economic circumstances
* *[example]: Foreigners accept all this because, on balance, it makes them better off.*

### rig

* *verb*, If someone rigs an election, a job appointment, or a game, they dishonestly arrange it to get the result they want or to give someone an unfair advantage.
* *[example]: Despite this, Mr Trump and his advisers are convinced that the world order is rigged against America, pointing to its rust-belt and its trade deficit.*

### ratify

* *verb*, sign or give formal consent to (a treaty, contract, or agreement), making it officially valid.
* *[example]: And they breach the spirit of USMCA, a free-trade deal signed by the White House only six months ago, which will replace NAFTA (Congress has yet to ratify it).

### barrage

* *noun*, a concentrated artillery bombardment over a wide area.
* *[example]: Alongside these big fights is a constant barrage of petty activity.

### skirmish

* *verb*, engage in a skirmish.
* *[example]: Officials have skirmished over foreign washing machines and Canadian softwood lumber imports.

### al-Qaeda

* *noun*, Activities which are ascribed to al-Qaeda involve the actions of those who have made a pledge of loyalty to bin Laden, or to the actions of "al-Qaeda-linked" individuals who have undergone training in one of its camps in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq or Sudan.
* *[example]: Such tools used to be reserved for times of war: the legal techniques used for surveillance of the payments system were developed to hunt al-Qaeda*.

### clobber

* *verb*, hit (someone) hard.
* *[example]: Though they often clobber specific firms, such as Huawei, others are running scared (see article).*

### deceptively

* *adverb*, in a way or to an extent that gives a misleading impression; to a lesser or greater extent than appears the case.
* *[example]: The damage to America’s economy so far has been deceptively small.*

### mount

* *verb*, climb up (stairs, a hill, or other rising surface).
* *[example]: In fact, the bill is mounting.*

### coalition

* *noun*, an alliance for combined action, especially a temporary alliance of political parties forming a government or of states.

### squander

* *verb*, waste (something, especially money or time) in a reckless and foolish manner.
* *[example]: America could have built a global coalition to press China to reform its economy, but it has now squandered precious goodwill.*

### scupper

* *verb*, to defeat or put an end to; to cause something such as a plan or an opportunity to fail (spoil)
* *[example]: Allies looking for new trade deals with America, including post-Brexit Britain, will worry that a presidential tweet could scupper it after it has been signed.*

### mutiny

* *noun*, an occasion when a group of people, especially soldiers or sailors, refuses to obey orders and/or attempts to take control from people in authority.
* *[example]: There are hints of mutiny—of America’s 35 European and Asian military allies, only three have so far agreed to ban Huawei.*

### adjudicate

* *verb*, to act as judge in a competition or argument, or to make a formal decision about something.
* *[example]: China is creating its own courts to adjudicate commercial disputes with foreigners (see Chaguan).*

## [A belt-and-road court dreams of rivalling the West’s tribunals](https://www.economist.com/china/2019/06/06/a-belt-and-road-court-dreams-of-rivalling-the-wests-tribunals)

### tribunal

* *noun*, a special court or group of people who are officially chosen, especially by the government, to examine (legal) problems of a particular type.
* *[example]: The court has two tribunals.*

### snort

* *verb*, to make an explosive sound by forcing air quickly up or down the nose.
* *[example]: The city was the historic terminus for jingling, snorting camel trains on trade routes later dubbed the Silk Road.*

### litigation

* *noun*, the process of taking legal action.
* *[example]: But their role is only to advise the tribunals and to mediate should parties prefer to avoid litigation.*

### field

* *verb*, to avoid answering a question directly.
* *[example]: Shan Wenhua, another of the court’s advisers, fielded reporters’ questions on opening day in Xi’an.*

### power broker

* A power broker is a person who influences people to vote towards a particular client (i.e. elected official or referendum) in exchange for political and financial benefits.
* *[example]: Too many belt-and-road contracts are secretive, unequal and reward local power-brokers in opaque ways, reflecting deep cynicism about global norms.*

### extraterritorial

* *adjective*, (of a law or decree) valid outside a country's territory.
* *[example]: Though Chinese officials denounce America as a bully with a long reach, some scholars wonder whether China might one day begin issuing more extraterritorial judgments of its own.*

### bleak

* *adjective*, If a place is bleak, it is empty, and not welcoming or attractive.
* *[example]: The tribunals could one day matter a lot, should they be used to export a vision of international law that reflects that same, bleak worldview.*

### hobble

* *verb*, to limit something or control the freedom of someone.
* *[example]: At the moment, an obsession with power and order is hobbling the new tribunals.*

## [The rule of law in Hong Kong](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2019/06/13/the-rule-of-law-in-hong-kong)

### rattle

* *verb*,  to make a rapid succession of short sharp noises.
* *[example]: Huge demonstrations have rattled the territory’s government—and the leadership in Beijing*

### nostalgic

* *adjective*, a feeling of pleasure and also slight sadness when you think about things that happened in the past.
* *[example]: Most of them were young—too young to be nostalgic about British rule.*

### brave

* *verb*, to face or endure with courage.

### retribution

* *noun*, the dispensing or receiving of reward or punishment especially in the hereafter
* *[example]: Since the “Umbrella Movement” of 2014, the Communist Party has been making clear that it will tolerate no more insubordination—and yet three days later demonstrators braved rubber bullets, tear gas and legal retribution to make their point.Since the “Umbrella Movement” of 2014, the Communist Party has been making clear that it will tolerate no more insubordination—and yet three days later demonstrators braved rubber bullets, tear gas and legal retribution to make their point.*

### impartial

* *adjective*, not supporting any of the sides involved in an argument.
* *[example]: The colonial-era drafters of Hong Kong’s current law excluded the mainland from extradition because its courts could not be trusted to deliver impartial justice.*

### vagary

* *noun*, an unexpected and inexplicable change in a situation or in someone's behavior.
* *[example]: With the threat of extradition, anyone in Hong Kong becomes subject to the vagaries of the Chinese legal system, in which the rule of law ranks below the rule of the party.*

### dissident

* *noun*, a person who publicly disagrees with and criticizes their government.

### take on

* to contend with as an opponent
* *[example]: Dissidents taking on Beijing may be sent to face harsh treatment in the Chinese courts. Businesspeople risk a well-connected Chinese competitor finding a way to drag them into an easily manipulated jurisdiction.*

### peg

* *verb*, to fasten something in place with pegs.
* *[example]: Yet its huge banking system is seamlessly connected to the West and its currency is pegged to the dollar.*

### Under one's thumb

* completely under one's power or influence; in a condition of subservience.
* *[example]: The threat is real. Since he took over as China’s leader in 2012, Xi Jinping has been making it clearer than ever that the legal system should be under the party’s thumb.*

### thug

* *verb*, a man who acts violently, especially to commit a crime.

### tycoon

* *noun*, a person who has succeeded in business or industry and has become very rich and powerful.
* *[example]: The authorities on the mainland have even sent thugs to other jurisdictions to abduct people, including a publisher of gossipy books about the party, snatched from a car park in Hong Kong and a tycoon taken from the Four Seasons hotel in 2017.*

### white-collar offences / white-collar crime

* White-collar crime (or corporate crime, more accurately) refers to financially motivated, nonviolent crime committed by businesses and government professionals.
* *[example]: Hong Kong’s government says it has reduced the number of white-collar offences that will be covered.*

### throttle

* *verb*, attack or kill (someone) by choking or strangling them.

### bundle

* *verb*, tie or roll up (a number of things) together as though into a parcel.
* *[example]: Local courts will have little room to object. The bill could throttle Hong Kong’s freedoms by raising the possibility that the party’s critics could be bundled over the border.*

### dig in one's heels (or toes or feet)

* resist stubbornly; refuse to give in.
* *[example]: Ms Lam has been digging in her heels. But it is not too late for her to think again.*

### subversion​

* *noun*, the act of trying to destroy or damage an established system or government.

### languish

* *verb*, to exist in an unpleasant or unwanted situation, often for a long time.
* *[example]: Anti-subversion legislation was left to languish after protests in 2003.*

### afford

* *verb*, provide or supply (an opportunity or facility).
* *[example]: Some American politicians have warned that the law could jeopardise the special status the United States affords the territory.*

### prudent

* *adjective*, careful and avoiding risks.
* *[example]: They should be prudent.*

### wreck

* *verb*, to destroy or badly damage something.
* *[example]: Cutting off Hong Kong would not only harm American interests in the territory but also wreck the prospects of Hong Kongers—an odd way to reward its would-be democrats.*

### intransigence

* *noun*, the quality of refusing to change your opinions or behaviour.

### thuggishness

* *noun*, The quality or state of being thuggish(characterized by violent behavior).
* *[example]: Each time the world sees how its intransigence and thuggishness is at odds with the image of harmony it wants to project.*

## [Donald Trump risks undoing decades of nuclear arms control](https://www.economist.com/united-states/2019/07/11/donald-trump-risks-undoing-decades-of-nuclear-arms-control)

### foray

* *noun*, a sudden attack or incursion into enemy territory, especially to obtain something; a raid.

### belie

* *verb*, (of an appearance) fail to give a true notion or impression of (something); disguise or contradict.
* [example]: His foray into North Korea belies the gamble he is taking with Russia*

### brink

* *noun*, a point at which something, typically something unwelcome, is about to happen; the verge.
* *[exampme]: After the Cuban missile crisis in 1962 took America and the Soviet Union to the brink, they grew serious about nuclear negotiations.*

### cap

* *verb*, place a limit or restriction on (prices, expenditure, or other activity).

### ballistic missile

* a missile with a high, arching trajectory, which is initially powered and guided but falls under gravity on to its target.
* [example]: In 1972 they signed an agreement capping the number of each other’s strategic delivery systems, and a treaty to limit defences against ballistic missiles.*

### muster

* *verb*, assemble (troops), especially for inspection or in preparation for battle.
* *[example]: Over the next four decades they mustered seven other big nuclear deals.*

### obscene

* *verb*, (of the portrayal or description of sexual matters) offensive or disgusting by accepted standards of morality and decency.

### horrendous

* *adjective*, extremely unpleasant, horrifying, or terrible.
* *[example]: Their combined destructive potential dropped from the equivalent of 1.3m Hiroshima bombs in 1973-74 to about 80,000 Hiroshimas now—less obscene, if still horrendous.*

### unravelling

* *verb*, undo (twisted, knitted, or woven threads).

### accord

* *noun*, an official agreement or treaty.
* *[example]: Yet nuclear deals are now unravelling. Mr Trump pulled America out of the multiparty one with Iran, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (jcpoa), hoping to press that country into a bigger, better accord, but so far producing only heightened tensions.*

### demise

* *noun*, death; a cessation of existence or activity.
* *[example]: Its demise could open the way for a new arms race in missiles, whether nuclear or conventional, whose time to target is mere minutes.*

### copious

* *adjective*, plentiful in number.
* *[example]: It limits each country to 1,550 deployed nuclear warheads across 700 delivery systems; its verification regime includes 18 on-site inspections each year and copious data exchanges.*

### keen

* *adjective*, having or showing eagerness or enthusiasm.
* *[example]: The prospects are not good: Russia is keen; America appears not to be.*

### hypersonic

* *adjective*, relating to speeds of more than five times the speed of sound (Mach 5).
* *[example]: The Americans worry about Russia’s plans for new weapons, such as the Avangard hypersonic boost-glide system; the Russians have concerns over the way the Americans got within start’s limits, converting nuclear delivery systems into conventional ones rather than destroying them.*

### bemoan

* *verb*, express discontent or sorrow over (something).
* *[example]: President Vladimir Putin bemoans the absence of practical moves from the Americans, despite Mr Trump’s earlier expressions of interest.*

### curtail

* *verb*, reduce in extent or quantity; impose a restriction on.
* *[example]: Talks need to start now, Mr Putin told the Financial Times last month, to settle matters in time. If the treaty ceases to exist, he said, “there would be no instrument in the world to curtail the arms race.”*

### proliferation

* *noun*, rapid increase in numbers.
* *[example]:  Without a START extension America and Russia “will be without on-the-ground insight into each other’s nuclear forces for the first time in about 50 years, which is incredibly dangerous”, says Alexandra Bell of the Centre for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, a think-tank.*

### envisage

* *verb*, contemplate or conceive of as a possibility or a desirable future event.
* *[example]: He envisages not just a bilateral deal with Russia, but a broader one involving China and perhaps others, embracing all weapons systems.*

### bandwidth

* *noun*, the energy or mental capacity required to deal with a situation.
* *[example]: Arms-control experts doubt that the Trump administration has the bandwidth to conduct serious negotiations with the Russians, Chinese and North Koreans at the same time.*

### disarmament

* *noun*, the reduction or withdrawal of military forces and weapons.
* *[example]: The State Department office responsible for handling nuclear disarmament has shrunk from 14 people to four during Mr Trump’s presidency, the Guardian recently reported.*

### wily

* *adjective*, skilled at gaining an advantage, especially deceitfully.
* *adjective*, Besides, they view Mr Bolton as a wily operator who hates arms control, which he sees as constraining America.

### diversion

* *noun*, an alternative route for use by traffic when the usual road is temporarily closed; a detour.
* *[example]: The suspicion is that he is using the idea of a bigger deal as a diversion to kill New START.*

### provison

* noun*, the action of providing or supplying something for use.

### rough ride

### acrimonious

### swell

### palliative



