nozzle
colcannon
staple: A main or important element of something, especially of a diet.
stint
entrenched
an ocean way,


June 8
shove
tripped
punches
cast a shadow
battered
hastily
chronicle 
Green Beret
long-snapper
anthem: A rousing or uplifting song identified with a particular group, body, or cause.
reverence
sorbet
tin
pitted
Campari
rookie
a late run
mundane
Coachella

June 9
souring
conundrum
root out
fraying
shifting on
bunker
vigilance
resurfaced
hopscotched
cacophony
hopped onto 
a dozen or so
remained at a standstill
marquee
graffiti
plywood
get a bad rap
dismissed as survial fare 
pantry(ies)
anchovy crostini
spruced up
splurging
flocking to
wager on
facing off
lifted 
uprisings


June10
polling  station
stationery
thin staffing
high turnout
bode well
runoff: A further competion, election
rally behand:
change their stance
floated a false theory
provocateur
corrections officers
protect his grip on power
an ominous prospect for a country
malign: Speak about (someone) in a spitefully critical manner.
gurdwara: A Sikh place of worship.
trilogy: A group of three related novels, plays, films, operas, or albums.
better off doing sth
vowel

June 11
flocked to
caveat: A warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitations.
gross: (especially of wrongdoing) very obvious and unacceptable; blatant.
preposterous: Contrary to reason or common sense; utterly absurd or ridiculous.
standoff: A stalemate or deadlock between two equally matched opponents in a dispute or conflict.
scorn: The feeling or belief that someone or something is worthless or despicable; contempt.
The Fed projects a long crunch
saxophonist: A person who plays the saxophone.
searing: Extremely hot or intense.
sow: Plant (seed) by scattering it on or in the earth.
age·ism:Prejudice or discrimination on the grounds of a person's age.
spawn: (of a fish, frog, mollusk, crustacean, etc.) release or deposit eggs.
ca·nine: Relating to or resembling a dog or dogs.
per·me·ate:Spread throughout (something); pervade.
weighed in
botched: (of a task) carried out badly or carelessly.

front runner: 
turnout
rapport: Rapport is a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned are “in sync” with each other, understand each other's feelings or ideas, and communicate smoothly.
dampen 
dropped out
post-morterm
dissent: The expression or holding of opinions at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially held.
cultural relic
subjecting the company to scrutiny
sue: institute legal proceedings against (a person or institution), typically for redress.
venue:the place where something happens, especially an organized event such as a concert, conference, or sports event.
decrepit
airy: (of a room or building) spacious, well lit, and well ventilated.
all walks of life.
recite: repeat aloud or declaim (a poem or passage) from memory before an audience.
mon·o·logue: A long speech by one actor in a play or movie, or as part of a theatrical or broadcast program.
com·mu·nal: Shared by all members of a community; for common use.
 panes of plexiglass
prowls the halls.
vat: A large tank or tub used to hold liquid, especially in industry.
tart: an open pastry case containing a filling.
grap·ple: Engage in a close fight or struggle without weapons; wrestle.
sti·fle: Make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.
swell·ing: An abnormal enlargement of a part of the body, typically as a result of an accumulation of fluid.
slate:
shaggy mane
gray roots
shaggy beards
chipped nails
Juneteenth
commemorate

June 14
resignations
in the trenches
chant: A repeated rhythmic phrase, typically one shouted or sung in unison by a crowd.
om·i·nous·ly: In a way that suggests that something bad is going to happen.
uptick 
ramping up
vetted
fandom
take aim at
tune in 
menstruate
fare: Perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time.


June 15
progressivism
aperture
backdrop
Diphtheria
cholera
poliovirus
measles
flouting
antagonism
revolt
toppled

June 16
antitrust
census
dissent
lopsided
seg·re·ga·tion·ist: Relating to or advocating the policy of enforced separation of different racial groups.
creed
ploy
plaintiff
deli
autonomy
vector
inmates
revoke
detente
liaison
wreath
rebuked 
libel
Maytag-repairman



June 17
clubs
colossal
muf·fled: (of a sound) not loud because of being obstructed in some way; muted.
throw up hands
willy-nilly
steroid
dexamethasone
cytokine storm
mandate
clash
brawl
suc·cumb: Fail to resist pressure, temptation, or some other negative force.
paroled: The release of a prisoner temporarily (for a special purpose) or permanently before the completion of a sentence, on the promise of good behavior.
felon: a person who has been convicted of a felony.
nom de guerre
comrade
conspiracist
full-throated
dished on waiting tables
foil line purse
philharmonic
airborne
crammed
flut·ist: A flute player; a flautist.

ensembles
heed: Pay attention to; take notice of.
slime molds
prescient

June 18
rushing forth
usually not for quotation
hold out hope
tailspin: An aircraft's diving descent combined with rotation.
border on
delusional
embark on
memoir: A historical account or biography written from personal knowledge or special sources.
czar/tsar: An emperor of Russia before 1917
receding
flare: A sudden brief burst of bright flame or light.
policing overhaul bill:
Maque choux
odds and ends
chile/chili
Ca·jun: A member of any of the largely self-contained communities in the bayou areas of southern Louisiana formed by descendants of French Canadians, speaking an archaic form of French.
cad·die:A person who carries a golfer's clubs and provides other assistance during a match.
home-court advantage
posh 
lodging
benevolent attacker
cringe:Bend one's head and body in fear or in a servile manner.
an·tics: Foolish, outrageous, or amusing behavior.
bassinet


June 19
barred 
census
in lieu of 
emblem
bleak
withdrew from 
backlash
embattle
blitz
hurdles
Craigslist
rub
seasoning 
white lion’s mane
portobellos
tram·po·line: A strong fabric sheet connected by springs to a frame, used as a springboard and landing area in doing acrobatic or gymnastic exercises.
or·tho·pe·dic: Relating to the branch of medicine dealing with the correction of deformities of bones or 
muscles.
tib·i·a: The inner and typically larger of the two bones between the knee and the ankle (or the equivalent joints in other terrestrial vertebrates), parallel with the fibula.
rib·ald: Referring to sexual matters in an amusingly coarse or irreverent way.
vul·gar: Lacking sophistication or good taste; unrefined.
mock·u·men·ta·ry: A motion picture or television program that takes the form of a serious documentary in order to satirize its subject.
mundanity 
a ridiculous air
Night sky streaker


June 21
reinvigorate 
buffeted 
shrugging off
rowdy 
grim
unhinged 
desecrating 
purging 
focal point
ep·i·sode
unabashed 
paternal
maternal
man·ne·quin: A dummy used to display clothes in a store window.
cutout
vogue: Dance to music in such a way as to imitate the characteristic poses struck by a model on a catwalk.
drag queen: a man who dresses up in women's clothes, typically for the purposes of entertainment.
plat·y·pus: A semiaquatic egg-laying mammal which frequents lakes and streams in eastern Australia. It has a sensitive pliable bill shaped like that of a duck, webbed feet with venomous spurs, and dense fur.


June 22
rogue: A dishonest or unprincipled man.
polling deficit
gaze
stuuned
odyssey: a long, exciting journey:
horse·back: Done while mounted on a horse.
flank: Be on each or on one side of.
pre·side: Be in the position of authority in a meeting or other gathering.
a·piece: (used after a noun or an amount) to, for, or by each one of a group.
gumbo
okra
lin·ger: Stay in a place longer than necessary because of a reluctance to leave.
nu·anced: Characterized by subtle shades of meaning or expression.
hazmat suit
ro·de·o: An exhibition or contest in which cowboys show their skill at riding broncos, roping calves, wrestling steers, etc.
Tumbleweeds 

or·gan·ist: A person who plays the organ.
Snooty people 
work·out: A session of vigorous physical exercise or training.


June 23
un·seat: Cause (someone) to fall from a horse or bicycle.
flank: The side of a person's or animal's body between the ribs and the hip.
prox·y: The authority to represent someone else, especially in voting.
em·bold·en: Give (someone) the courage or confidence to do something or to behave in a certain way.
perk: Become or make more cheerful, lively, or interesting.
cau·cus: (in some US states) a meeting at which local members of a political party register their preference among candidates running for office or select delegates to attend a convention.
ab·sen·tee: A person who is expected or required to be present at a place or event but is not.
pil·grim: A person who journeys to a sacred place for religious reasons.
crunch: Crush (a hard or brittle foodstuff) with the teeth, making a loud but muffled grinding sound.
fennel
cumin
broil: Cook (meat or fish) by exposure to direct, intense radiant heat.
rim: Form or act as an outer edge or rim for.
garnish
rook·ie: A new recruit, especially in the army or police.

June 24
address v.
tumbling: (typically of a person) fall suddenly, clumsily, or headlong.
ca·ve·at: A warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitations.
dispatched: 
pilgrimage:
cruiser:
gripping story
berth: A ship's allotted place at a wharf or dock.
le·ni·ent: (of punishment or a person in authority) permissive, merciful, or tolerant.
shut·off: A device used for stopping a supply or operation.
salvage: Rescue (a wrecked or disabled ship or its cargo) from loss at sea.
unsolicited:
crave:
wa·ger: More formal term for bet.

June 25
plague: Cause continual trouble or distress to.
restitution: 
dire: (of a situation or event) extremely serious or urgent.
dim: (of a light, color, or illuminated object) not shining brightly or clearly.
take crumbs on the table:  An insufficient or unfair amount of something provided by one when one has a sufficient or abundant amount.
punt this ball: Kick (the ball) after it is dropped from the hands and before it reaches the ground.
jog: Run at a steady gentle pace, especially on a regular basis as a form of physical exercise.
cock·roach: A scavenging insect that resembles a beetle, having long antennae and legs and typically a broad, flattened body. Several tropical kinds have become established worldwide as household pests.
e·vic·tion: The action of expelling someone, especially a tenant, from a property; expulsion.
mush·y: Soft and pulpy.
dough: A thick, malleable mixture of flour and liquid, used for baking into bread or pastry.
cast-iron pan
smudge: Cause (something) to become messily smeared by rubbing it.
sogginess
noir: A genre of crime film or fiction characterized by cynicism, fatalism, and moral ambiguity.
heist: A robbery.
mem·oir: A historical account or biography written from personal knowledge or special sources.
veep·stakes: The notional competition among politicians to be chosen as a party's candidate for vice president.

June 26
statehood
ref·er·en·dum: A general vote by the electorate on a single political question which has been referred to them for a direct decision.
pro·po·nent: A person who advocates a theory, proposal, or project.
stoke:
hard·scrab·ble: Involving hard work and struggle.
grenade
re·tal·i·a·tion: The action of returning a military attack; counterattack.
in·dict·ment: A formal charge or accusation of a serious crime.
he·don·ism: The pursuit of pleasure; sensual self-indulgence.
psy·che·del·ic: A psychedelic drug.
par·ti·san: A strong supporter of a party, cause, or person.
pu·ree: A smooth, creamy substance made of liquidized or crushed fruit or vegetables.
en·gross: Absorb all the attention or interest of.
sem·blance: The outward appearance or apparent form of something, especially when the reality is different.


June 28
curb
yearn: Have an intense feeling of longing for something, typically something that one has lost or been separated from.
normalcy: The condition of being normal; the state of being usual, typical, or expected.
voting booth: 
o·vert: Done or shown openly; plainly or readily apparent, not secret or hidden.
con·vul·sion: A sudden, violent, irregular movement of a limb or of the body, caused by involuntary contraction of muscles and associated especially with brain disorders such as epilepsy, the presence of certain toxins or other agents in the blood, or fever in children.
dec·i·mate: Kill, destroy, or remove a large percentage or part of.
pleth·o·ra: A large or excessive amount of (something).
sapped v.: gradually weaken or destroy (a person's strength or power).
stall: (of a motor vehicle or its engine) stop running, typically because of an overload on the engine.
de·lib·er·ate: Engage in long and careful consideration.
o·ver·due: Not having arrived, happened, or been done by the expected time.
missing out on: To lose the chance or opportunity to do or experience something.
nautili
cham·bered: (especially of a gun) having a chamber of a particular kind.
can·yon: A deep gorge, typically one with a river flowing through it.
dune: A mound or ridge of sand or other loose sediment formed by the wind, especially on the sea coast or in a desert.
reefs:
landslides:
fuss: a display of unnecessary or excessive excitement, activity, or interest.
mocktail:
quilting:
bench: Exhibit (a dog) at a show.
ballpark peanuts

June 29
flout: Openly disregard (a rule, law or convention).
mount: Climb up (stairs, a hill, or other rising surface).
trail someone or something by something: to have a smaller score than someone or something by a specific number of points.
em·blem: A heraldic device or symbolic object as a distinctive badge of a nation, organization, or family.
fray: a situation of intense activity, typically one incorporating an element of aggression or competition.
vid·e·o·tape: Make a video recording of (an event or broadcast).
o·ver·sight: the action of overseeing something.
seared: (of food) fried quickly at a high temperature so as to retain its juices in subsequent cooking.
cash·ew: An edible kidney-shaped nut, rich in oil and protein, which is roasted and shelled before it can be eaten. Oil is extracted from the shells and used as a lubricant and insecticide and in the production of plastics.
snap peas:
pro·tag·o·nist: The leading character or one of the major characters in a drama, movie, novel, or other fictional text.
narcissistic: Having an excessive or erotic interest in oneself and one's physical appearance.
cam·e·o: A piece of jewelry, typically oval in shape, consisting of a portrait in profile carved in relief on a background of a different color.
stand-in: a person who stands in for another, especially in a performance; a substitute.


June 30
outlaw: A person who has broken the law, especially one who remains at large or is a fugitive.
one broad brush:
Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), was a landmark decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in which the Court ruled that the Constitution of the United States protects a pregnant woman's liberty to choose to have an abortion without excessive government restriction.
compilation: The action or process of producing something, especially a list, book, or report, by assembling information collected from other sources.
disseminated: Having spread throughout an organ or the body.
complacent: Showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements.
stifle: Make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.
telecommute: work from home, making use of the Internet, email, and the telephone.
revamp: Give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to.
spree: A spell or sustained period of unrestrained activity of a particular kind.
opulent: Ostentatiously rich and luxurious or lavish.
outmaneuver: Evade (an opponent) by moving faster or with greater agility.
forfeit: Lose or be deprived of (property or a right or privilege) as a penalty for wrongdoing.
exoneration: The action of officially absolving someone from blame; vindication. Exoneration occurs when the conviction for a crime is reversed, either through demonstration of innocence, a flaw in the conviction, or otherwise.
coleslaw: Sliced raw cabbage mixed with mayonnaise and other vegetables, eaten as a salad.
earthy: Resembling or suggestive of earth or soil.
evoke: Bring or recall to the conscious mind.
Brooklyn drill music:

July 1
flout: Openly disregard (a rule, law or convention).
QAnon: QAnon is a far-right conspiracy theory detailing a supposed secret plot by an alleged "deep state" against U.S. President Donald Trump and his supporters.
unseat: remove from a position of power or authority.
mushrooming: Rapidly growing, expanding, or developing.
hop on:
bode: Be an omen of a particular outcome.
persona: The aspect of someone's character that is presented to or perceived by others.
demarcation: The action of fixing the boundary or limits of something.
bust out
balsamic
glaze
spike
bars of the whistling 
inescapably: In a way that cannot be avoided or ignored; undeniably.

July 2
stalling
spiking
subpoenas
sputter: Make a series of soft explosive sounds, typically when being heated or as a symptom of a fault.
militia: A military force that is raised from the civil population to supplement a regular army in an emergency.
burglary: Entry into a building illegally with intent to commit a crime, especially theft.
appellate: (especially of a court) concerned with or dealing with applications for decisions to be reversed.
rowing: The sport or pastime of propelling a boat by means of oars.
tingle: Experience or cause to experience a slight prickling or stinging sensation.
sauté: Fry quickly in a little hot fat.
prickly: Covered in prickles.
reminisce: Indulge in enjoyable recollection of past events.
blissed out:
gleefully: In an exuberantly or triumphantly joyful manner.
sack races:
elicit: Evoke or draw out (a response, answer, or fact) from someone in reaction to one's own actions or questions.

July 4
tumultuous: Making a loud, confused noise; uproarious.
precipice:A very steep rock face or cliff, especially a tall one.
plunge: jump or dive quickly and energetically.
draft: n. 征兵
tantalizing: Tormenting or teasing with the sight or promise of something unobtainable.
privy: Sharing in the knowledge of (something secret or private).
divulge: Make known (private or sensitive information).
acquittal: A judgment that a person is not guilty of the crime with which the person has been charged.
hung over the trial
acquit
staunch: Loyal and committed in attitude.
blowout: A sudden rupture or malfunction of a part or an apparatus due to pressure, in particular the bursting of an automobile tire.
jarring blow 
rogue: A dishonest or unprincipled man.
sprang up
down·fall: A loss of power, prosperity, or status.
mo·gul: An important or powerful person, especially in the motion picture or media industry.
scramble: to move with urgency or panic
contagion: a contagious disease
grave·dig·ger: A person who digs graves.
up·swing: An increase in strength or quantity; an upward trend.
trickle down: relating to or being an effect caused gradually by remote or indirect influences
counterfeit: Made in exact imitation of something valuable or important with the intention to deceive or defraud.
scores
crest: Reach the top of (something such as a hill or wave).

